The meeting opened with a presentation of the sixth situation report assessing the newly available information and its impact on the risks to the fulfilment of the inflation forecast from the fifth situation report. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast as being slightly anti-inflationary overall.  At 6.5%, inflation in August had been 0.3 percentage point lower than forecasted. The lower inflation in August had been due mainly to slower food price growth and lower fuel prices. The assumption regarding the effects of the changes to indirect taxes and regulated prices was materialising. By contrast, adjusted inflation excluding fuels had been 0.2 percentage point higher than forecasted. Domestic economic growth in the second quarter of 2008 had been slightly lower compared to the forecast and wage growth in the business sector had also remained below the forecast. The exchange rate, which had, on average, appreciated more markedly than forecasted during the third quarter, was also acting in a slightly anti-inflationary direction.  The outlook for external developments was uncertain owing to the deepening global financial market crisis. Information available during the preparation of the situation report suggested a risk of an anti-inflationary effect of the external environment. It was also possible that the outlook for domestic regulated prices of energy would be lowered due to falling world energy prices. Short-term risks associated with developments in prices of food and fuels were also assessed as being on the downside.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board began its discussion. The Board agreed that the overall balance of risks posed a slight downside risk to inflation. Information on the deepening global financial market crisis indicated additional risks in both directions, which were, moreover, surrounded by considerable uncertainty. The new data were also very volatile. The Board stated that the slowdown in economic growth owing to the worse external demand outlook could be more significant than forecasted.  In connection with expected future inflation developments it was said that inflation would gradually return to the current inflation target of 3%. It was added, however, that inflation at the monetary policy horizon would still be above the point inflation target of 2% valid from the beginning of 2010. The opinion was expressed that rates should remain unchanged in view of the new inflation target. It was said that a declining interest rate path until the end of 2008 was consistent with the baseline scenario of the forecast from the fifth situation report and that the degree of uncertainty of the forecast had been expressed using an alternative scenario, with which higher interest rates and their later return to lower levels by comparison with the baseline scenario were consistent. Against this, it was pointed out that reality could also deviate from the forecast in the opposite direction, which was currently the case.  It was repeatedly mentioned in the discussion of the forecast risks that the slightly higher adjusted inflation excluding fuels could pose an upside risk to inflation. It was said several times that the current higher inflation could feed through into inflation expectations. The opinion was also expressed that the high inflation had already fed through into inflation expectations and therefore inflation would not slow and return rapidly towards the inflation target. It was also said that it was unclear whether wages would act in the inflationary or anti-inflationary direction.  The Board discussed in detail the global financial crisis and its potential impacts on the Czech economy. It was mentioned that the outlook for external demand was deteriorating significantly and the effects of the financial crisis would undoubtedly also appear in Europe. It could therefore be expected that domestic economic growth would be lower than forecasted. It was also said that no immediate impacts of the financial crisis on the Czech financial sector were currently visible. It was repeatedly said that the effects of the financial crisis on external demand could not be expected to unwind rapidly. It was also argued that global developments were uncertain and it was difficult to assess the impact of the financial crisis. The fluctuations in the dollar’s exchange rate, which was very sensitive to news concerning the crisis, were mentioned in the respect.  The Board stated that the recent evolution of the exchange rate posed a downside risk to the inflation forecast. There was consensus that future exchange rate movements were subject to great uncertainty. A stronger-than-forecasted exchange rate could be a result of the koruna’s continued role of a “safe haven”. However, it was also argued that the koruna would partly lose this position following the unwinding of the crisis and might depreciate. It was also said that the ECB probably would not decrease its rates in the nearest months and therefore a CNB interest rate cut would widen the negative interest rate differential. As a result, the exchange rate could depreciate more markedly. Against this, however, it was stated that a similar interest rate differential had been recorded in the past without having significant effects on the exchange rate. The point was also made that the exchange rate of the koruna would still show considerable year-on-year appreciation even after this potential weakening.  It was said during the discussion that prices of oil and food were a downside risk to the inflation forecast. The short-term outlook for these commodities was more favourable by comparison with the forecast. In the case of food prices, this was indicated by the much better harvest than last year and the expected lower demand for food. It was also said that the exchange rate of the dollar was dampening the changes in oil prices. The opinion was also repeatedly expressed that the outlook for prices of oil and food was surrounded by great uncertainty.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 3.50%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Tomšík. Two members voted for lowering rates by 0.25 percentage point: Vice-Governor Singer and Chief Executive Director Řežábek.