The meeting opened with a presentation of the seventh situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. Headline inflation had remained well above the tolerance band of the inflation target in 2008 Q3. However, it had started falling quite quickly and was 0.3 percentage point below the previous forecast. The domestic economy was continuing to decline from the peak of the business cycle. The inflationary domestic cost pressures, especially in the wage area, were steadily easing and were being outweighed by the anti-inflationary effect of import prices resulting from the past exchange rate appreciation. The initial inflation pressures were assessed being on the downside.  According to the new forecast, inflation would fall rapidly to the 3% inflation target at the start of next year thanks to the unwinding of the price shocks that occurred in late 2007 and early 2008, the anti-inflationary effect of the appreciation of the koruna, and a decline in domestic price pressures due to slowing economic activity and subdued wage growth. In late 2009 and early 2010, inflation would then be at the 2% inflation target valid from 2010. The forecast expected a significant downswing in economic growth. This year the economy would still show a relatively high rate of growth, but next year GDP growth would fall below 3% as a result of the lagged effects of the exchange rate appreciation and slowing external demand. In 2010 there would be just a slight increase in domestic GDP growth as a result of a gradual recovery in external demand. Consistent with the forecast was a decline in interest rates followed by a modest rise in late 2009/early 2010. The new situation report assessed the risks of the baseline forecast scenario as being on the downside. The risk of a deeper and longer economic decline abroad had been captured in an alternative forecast scenario. Consistent with this alternative scenario were only slightly lower rates than in the baseline scenario, with virtually identical paths for headline and monetary-policy relevant inflation but with considerably lower economic growth.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. The board members agreed that the overall balance of risks to inflation was clearly on the downside and that the new information received since the previous monetary policy meeting and since the completion of the new forecast was tending towards a more significant reduction of interest rates. In particular, the outlook for the euro area was deteriorating, interest rates were falling around the world, and prices of commodities, energy-producing materials and food were decreasing sharply. The exchange rate, which was continuing to show quite a sizeable year-on-year appreciation, also remained an anti-inflationary factor. The only potential inflationary factors identified in the discussion of the forecast risks were a possible decline in the rate of growth of potential output and persisting relatively high growth in nominal unit wage costs.  The Board stated that the domestic economy was currently exposed to an unusual combination of anti-inflationary shocks of a cost, exchange rate and demand nature. This situation might last for some time, as the focus was shifting towards a demand shock. The downswing in economic activity abroad was gradually transmitting to the domestic economy as a result of the latter’s strong export orientation. It was said in the discussion that the last time the Czech economy had faced such a clear combination of risks had been back in 1998, but unlike in 1998 the current decline in demand and the significantly worse functioning of credit markets were global phenomena. Given these facts, doubts were also expressed whether the modest economic recovery predicted for 2010 by the new forecast would actually occur so soon.  The risks associated with the potential transmission of the credit crunch abroad to the domestic economy were also discussed. The funding of investment projects and the financing of the operational needs of non-financial corporations were both identified as growing risks. A sharp rise in interest rates on loans for operational financing and constraints on the availability of such loans would lead to a deterioration in the financial situation of corporations.  The opinion was expressed in the discussion that a sharper reduction in monetary policy rates was not necessarily the optimal response, as it would not necessarily influence effectively the situation in the interbank market and might also send out the wrong signal regarding the soundness of the Czech financial sector and the prospects for the domestic economy. Attention was also drawn to the fact that after the wave of problems in emerging market economies the koruna had been the only currency in this category to return to its original values. This could be interpreted not only as meaning that the Czech economy was still regarded by foreign financial investors as a safe haven, but also as a sign that the domestic real economy would be affected by the external problems to a relatively lesser extent. In this context, the opinion was also expressed that the relative stability of the financial sector could mean a faster return to normal lending conditions in the Czech Republic than in surrounding economies. Against this, the opinion was expressed if the risk of a deeper and longer economic decline abroad, as expressed in the alternative forecast scenario, were to materialise, interest rates would have to be lowered more substantially to keep inflation near the inflation target and reduce the fall in domestic economic growth.  The Board discussed the current financial market situation in depth. It was said that the existence of quite a large difference between the two-week repo rate and the three-month PRIBOR, caused by a high credit premium on the interbank market, constituted a disturbance of the monetary policy transmission mechanism. In this context, the Board discussed a proposal to reduce the spread between the repo rate and the Lombard rate to 0.5 percentage point in order to make the marginal lending facility more attractive as a way of solving banks’ potential liquidity needs. In support of this proposal, it was said that reducing the spread between interest rates for refinancing through this facility might be seen as a positive signal. However, the prevailing view was that in a situation where a liquidity-providing facility was already in place, Lombard operations were being used by banks only to a very minor extent and only for technical fine-tuning in the maintenance of required reserves. The proposed change would thus have a negligible effect.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.75 percentage point to 2.75%, effective 7 November 2008. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Řežábek and Chief Executive Director Tomšík. Vice-Governor Hampl voted for lowering the repo rate by 0.50 percentage point.  The Board also decided by a majority vote to leave the spread between the repo rate and the Lombard rate unchanged at 1 percentage point. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Hampl and Chief Executive Director Tomšík. Chief Executive Director Řežábek voted for reducing the spread between the repo rate and the Lombard rate to 0.50 percentage point. The Board thus decided by a majority vote to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by 0.75 percentage point to 1.75% and 3.75% respectively.