The meeting opened with a presentation of the new macroeconomic forecast contained in the third situation report. The forecast still assessed the current high inflation as a transitory phenomenon caused primarily by changes to indirect taxes and by rapid growth in regulated prices and food prices. The real economy was at the peak of the business cycle and its current effect was assessed as inflationary. The estimate of the real marginal cost gap, which measures the effect of the real economy on inflation, had been increased significantly compared to the previous forecast, owing in particular to higher-than-forecasted GDP growth and unexpectedly high adjusted inflation excluding fuels, which, moreover, had occurred amid a faster decline in import prices.  The new forecast expected inflation to decline gradually. At the monetary policy horizon, i.e. in the first three quarters of 2009, headline inflation was expected to be in the lower half of the inflation-target tolerance band. This would create the right conditions for hitting the 2% inflation target in 2010. The expected fall in inflation would be fostered by an unwinding of the temporary effect of taxes and regulated prices and by rapid closure of the positive output gap. By 2009, the real economy was expected to turn anti-inflationary, as a result of a tight exchange rate component of the monetary conditions, restrictive fiscal policy and weaker external demand. The forecast expected the interest rate component of the monetary conditions to remain slightly easy.  Consistent with the macroeconomic forecast and its assumptions was broad stability in nominal interest rates initially, followed by a decline still in 2008 and stability in 2009.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. The board members agreed that there were many mutually conflicting tendencies in both the domestic and external economy and that this implied an unusually high degree of uncertainty for the decision-making process. The frequently mentioned risks included the future evolution of global commodity prices (in particular food prices) and the development of the global financial crisis and its effect on the real economy and inflation in the most important economies.  The Board discussed the outlook for the domestic economy in detail. The rapid unwinding of the inflationary effect of the real economy was an important factor in the forecast as regards the return of inflation towards the target. However, it was said in the debate that the GDP growth forecast in the baseline scenario was among the most pessimistic as compared to the estimates of other institutions. A smaller-than-expected downswing in GDP growth might thus present an upside risk to inflation in the baseline scenario. One possibility discussed in this context was a more diffuse or weaker effect of the exchange rate component of the real monetary conditions on economic activity. A potential reason for a changed effect of the exchange rate shock was the greater use of exchange rate risk hedging than in the past. Against this, however, it was said that although firms might be managing their risks better, the exchange rate effect could not be avoided entirely.  One argument in favour of continued robust economic growth was the still high level of consumer confidence. On the other hand, attention was drawn to the current signals of weakening export activity, and it was also emphasised that the previous monetary policy rate increases had not yet fully manifested themselves. It was also said repeatedly in the discussion that demand would probably be contained by an increase in the saving rate linked with the tax reform. Demand should also be weakened by a decline in real wages due to inflation. In addition, it was likely that the exchange rate shock would temporarily slow investment activity, and a dampening effect on the labour market could also be expected.  The transmission of the exchange rate shock to prices was also discussed. The prevailing view was that the anti-inflationary effect of the strong exchange rate would be significant, thanks mainly to effective competition in the tradable goods sector. In this context, however, the opinion was expressed that given the current high level of demand there was a risk of slower transmission of the appreciation to prices. It was said that the experience of intense disinflation in 2002 after a previous rapid appreciation of the koruna might be of only limited relevance, as the cyclical position of the economy was different at that time.  The Board also discussed the labour market situation. Some of the board members assessed this market as being tight and emphasised the inflation risk of excessively high growth in wages and nominal unit wage costs. In addition, attention was drawn to the rapid fall in unemployment and to the fact that the unemployment rate was probably getting below the non-accelerating inflation level. Against this, the opinion was expressed that the labour market was open and that the inflow of foreign workers would counteract the wage growth pressures. It was said repeatedly that the inflation pressures in the wage area were not particularly significant at present.  In the debate, some of the board members expressed doubts that the baseline scenario of the forecast could be regarded as the most probable. The risk scenario based on the model variant assuming more intense propagation of the cost shocks to inflation expectations and to inflation in other price categories, and also generally slower monetary policy transmission, was suggesting a potential risk of higher inflation and thus also the need for a higher interest rate path.  In the context of the impacts of the global financial crisis, the Board discussed the tightening lending conditions of commercial banks. Shifts towards greater caution could be seen in particular for consumer credit and on the mortgage market. Slowing credit growth might therefore be expected. In addition, it was said that the interbank market had seen a reduction in activity and an autonomous rise in interest rates. The Board agreed that these restrictive factors from the financial sector were also relevant to the monetary policy settings.  On average, the Board inclined towards the view that the risks of the baseline scenario were broadly on the upside with regard to inflation, although some members assessed the risks as being balanced.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 3.75%. Six members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. One member voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point: Vice-Governor Hampl.