The Board was given a presentation of the first situation report in 2008, containing in particular the new macroeconomic forecast. The new forecast responded among other things to changes in the external environment, where the financial market turbulence was starting to adversely affect the economic growth of the major global economies. The economic activity outlook for the euro area countries had been lowered. The monetary authorities’ expected response had moved the Euribor interest rate outlook downwards. The fall in the Euribor had meanwhile been dampened by the ECB’s fears of relatively high price index growth, the outlook for which had been revised upwards since the previous forecast. This high growth had been linked among other things with high prices of energy and fuels and with an upward revision of the outlook for oil prices by as much as $25 a barrel. From the point of view of the European economy, this rise had been only partially moderated by the depreciation of the USD/EUR exchange rate.  The starting conditions of the forecast assumed comparatively strong demand-pull inflation pressures from the real economy, stemming primarily from the positive output gap. Real wages were again slightly anti-inflationary. The real monetary conditions index was slightly easy in its interest rate component and tight in its exchange rate component. During 2008, the forecast assumed that the demand-pull inflation pressures would fairly quickly disappear and turn anti-inflationary. This was linked with projected lower output growth in both 2008 and 2009, chiefly reflecting lower private consumption and lower net exports. Tighter monetary conditions would also have an anti-inflationary effect.  The new forecast had also taken into account the higher-than-expected rise in inflation in late 2007, which it assessed as a one-off shock linked mainly with external developments. The underlying factors had been higher growth in food prices, fuel prices and regulated prices. A higher-than-usual contribution of changes to indirect taxes would be a factor at the short end of the forecast. The prediction assumes that this shock would fade relatively quickly as the demand-pull inflation pressures subside and the monetary conditions get tighter. The inflation forecast was thus initially above the previous forecast for most of 2008 and then declining towards the target at the monetary policy horizon.  Consistent with the macroeconomic forecast and its assumptions was a modest rise in nominal interest rates initially, followed by a decline still in 2008. In 2009, nominal interest rates were expected to be broadly flat.  Several major changes had been made to the core prediction model used to prepare the forecast. These had affected the paths of inflation, gross domestic product and implied interest rates. The main model change had consisted in limiting the pass-through of shocks across individual price categories. In addition, the weight of future developments in the formation of expectations and the flexibility of the monetary policy reaction had both been increased. In connection with these changes, an alternative forecast scenario – assuming the same model mechanisms as in the previous model from the 10th situation report of 2007 – had been prepared. This alternative scenario generated a higher inflation path than the baseline scenario of the forecast. Consistent with the alternative inflation forecast was a higher – and gradually rising – interest rate path during 2008 as compared to the baseline scenario, in response to this higher inflation outlook.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the risks and uncertainties associated with the new forecast. The Board agreed that the uncertainties associated with monetary policy decision-making were this time greater than usual, while the risks were heading in both directions. These risks were linked with developments in both the global and domestic economies. The Board turned its attention to the high inflation recorded towards the end of last year. There was a consensus that the rise in prices had been caused by one-off shocks beyond the reach of monetary policy, which were gradually abating. In this context it was also said that monetary policy should focus on the future evolution of prices and not react to past inflation, which had been due in part to administrative changes introduced on 1 January 2008.  In the context of the observed high growth in prices, the Board also emphasised the uncertainties surrounding the possible higher pass-through of cost shocks to other price categories. It was said that a possibility of such second-round effects could be identified, for example, in the rise in measured inflation expectations. Some of the board members said in this regard that they had slight preference for the alternative scenario over the baseline scenario. But it was also said that the baseline scenario and the alternative scenario were predicting similar interest rate paths for the first quarter. Relatively significant differences between them emerge as from the second quarter. Some of the board members emphasised their aversion to contrary movements in interest rates in the short term as assumed in the baseline scenario of the forecast. It was said that raising interest rates in the short term cannot influence inflation or inflation expectations and would merely lead to needless volatility in the financial markets and the real economy. Other board members expressed the opposite opinion, stressing the need for flexible monetary policy.  Some of the board members expressed doubts about the sharp downswing in Czech economic growth predicted in the forecast. It was said that the related rapid change in the cyclical position of the economy was not all that usual, nor was it currently supported by the relatively favourable labour market data and other related economic indicators. Against this, it was argued that the previously mentioned slowdown in global economic activity, which might turn out to be far more significant than forecasted, might adversely affect the economic growth of the Czech Republic. The argument was also made that even at a time of rising prices and concurrently slowing economic activity, the central bank should be responsible primarily for price stability. It was also said that from the viewpoint of the Czech economy the global situation could be regarded as an example of an asymmetric shock.  Other potential impact channels on the Czech economy were also mentioned in the discussion of the considerable uncertainty surrounding the future course of the US economy and the Czech Republic’s main trading partner economies. The possibility of significantly lower interest rates in the euro area was discussed in the context of the recent dramatic interest rate reduction in the USA. Other things being equal, such lower rates would foster a narrowing of the interest rate differential between the koruna and the euro and put appreciation pressures on the koruna’s exchange rate. The slowdown in global economic activity might also lead to some easing of the demand pressures on world prices of food and oil, which in the recent past had risen sharply and had thus contributed to the cost shock to Czech prices. This shock might therefore fade more quickly than forecasted, especially as regards food prices and fuel prices. On the other hand, it was said that the previous rise in global prices of food and oil had been caused by adverse supply-side factors and by increased demand from the rapidly growing Asian economies, for which high demand could be expected to persist.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to increase the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage point to 3.75%, effective 8 February 2008. At the same time it decided to increase the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 2.75% and 4.75% respectively. Five members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Niedermayer, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Hampl and Chief Executive Director Tomšík. Two members voted for leaving interest rates unchanged: Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Řežábek.