The meeting opened with a presentation of the second situation report, which focused on assessing the newly available information and the risks associated with the fulfilment of the forecast from the first situation report. The newly available information suggested that the risks to inflation in relation to the February forecast were on both the upside and the downside, but had moved towards the downside overall. Most of the newly available data on the domestic economy were assessed as representing upside risks to inflation. Inflation in both January and February (annual consumer price inflation of 7.5%) had been higher than expected by the February forecast. Monetary-policy relevant inflation and adjusted inflation excluding fuels had also been higher than expected. Domestic economic growth had been higher than forecasted, and the revision of the GDP figures also suggested higher-than-forecasted growth. By contrast, the lower-than-expected wage growth at the end of 2007 could be termed a downside risk in relation to the forecast.  The external environment and also the current settings of the monetary conditions were included among the downside risks. Although some commodity prices had risen, they were not being passed through to domestic prices, partly because the rise was being offset by the weakening dollar. The financial crisis in some segments of the international credit market could lead to a downswing in European economic growth. This was giving rise to a lower market outlook for interest rates in the euro area. The strong appreciation of the koruna was acting more restrictively than the forecast had predicted.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board began its discussion. The Board agreed that monetary policy decision-making was difficult, because both upside and downside risks to inflation in relation to the February forecast could be identified. The upside risks included the possibility of the current higher-than-expected inflation feeding through into inflation expectations and subsequently into inflation. The downside risks included an expected slowdown in external demand and appreciation of the koruna exchange rate.  The Board agreed that headline inflation, and in particular adjusted inflation excluding fuels, which was higher than the February forecast value (at a time, moreover, of a strong koruna exchange rate), indicated the existence of demand-pull inflation pressures in the domestic economy. Several opinions were expressed during the assessment of the intensity of these pressures. It was said that the economic growth, which had been higher than forecasted, suggested stronger upside risks to inflation than the original presentation had indicated. It was also said that monetary aggregate growth might also be signalling some upside risks. But it was also mentioned that a significant role in inflation was being played by cost factors and food prices, which might be being affected by speculative demand for agricultural commodities. It was said repeatedly that a more detailed analysis of the causes of the deviation of adjusted inflation excluding fuels from the forecast might reduce the uncertainty at the next monetary policy meeting.  It was said during the discussion that the key factor for monetary policy decision-making was the inflation forecast for the monetary policy horizon, not the current inflation figure, and that the inflation risks at the monetary policy horizon were currently negligible. In this connection, it was said that given the strong exchange rate of the koruna, inflation might return to the target fairly quickly. It was said several times that the current inflation figure represented an upside risk if it were to feed back into inflation via inflation expectations and the labour market. For this reason, the information provided by labour market analyses was of key importance. This information was currently sending out mixed signals. Wage growth had slowed at the end of 2007 and had picked up pace again at the beginning of 2008. The Board discussed whether this pick-up was compensation for the 2007 slowdown – and was therefore a one-off effect – or whether it was a more permanent trend, which would be a signal of demand-pull inflation pressures. It was said that only the new wage figures would clarify which alternative was more likely.  The Board agreed that the external economy was a source of even greater uncertainty than the domestic economy. It was repeatedly noted that the crisis in the US financial markets and the slowdown of the US economy could have an anti-inflationary effect. It was said repeatedly that the European Central Bank was currently directing its monetary policy at lowering inflation and that the euro area countries were currently relatively resilient to the impacts of the economic slowdown. The Board considered whether the factors that were increasing the resilience of the European economies to swings in the US economic cycle by comparison with the past were permanent and would act over the entire domestic monetary policy horizon. It was said that the growth in the proportion of trade with Eastern Europe and the decline in the proportion of trade with the USA might constitute such a permanent factor.  The Board then discussed whether the US financial market crisis had affected the exchange rate of the koruna. Some of the opinions expressed pointed to the investment nature of the koruna purchases and to their link with the flight from the dollar, which was being weakened by the US crisis. But it was also said that the exchange rate was being affected by the interest rate differential and represented a standard part of monetary transmission. The Board agreed that the strong koruna exchange rate was tightening domestic monetary policy as compared to the February forecast. The opinion was expressed that the lowering of monetary policy rates abroad might also be contributing to this tightening.  It was said during the discussion that it was not appropriate to play a waiting game with the response to the upside risks to inflation and that, at a time of increased uncertainty regarding external developments, monetary policy should be focused on domestic inflation factors, which were associated with less uncertainty. It was also said that last year’s series of domestic rate increases should be included among the uncertainties associated with the evolution of the domestic economy, as their impact on the domestic economy was not yet fully reflected in the data. In this context, it was said that the February forecast expected a relatively sizeable swing in the output gap in the second quarter, from positive to negative values, and thus also a reduction in demand-pull pressures.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 3.75%. Six members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. One member voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point: Vice-Governor Hampl.