The meeting opened with a presentation of the seventh situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. Inflation had continued falling in 2009 Q3, fluctuating well below the lower boundary of the inflation-target tolerance band. Despite a modest quarter-on-quarter recovery in economic activity in 2009 Q2, real GDP had shrunk further in year-on-year comparison and had probably been close to bottoming out. Employment had continued falling rapidly, unemployment had risen and nominal wage growth had stabilised at a slightly positive level. The initial pressures arising from the domestic economy were still assessed as being anti-inflationary, but had weakened as a consequence of the observed evolution of nominal wages and household consumption. Import prices had also started to have an anti-inflationary effect.  According to the November forecast, inflation would be very low in the coming few months. Headline inflation would start rising gradually in 2010 and would be just above the 2% inflation target at the year-end. Monetary-policy relevant inflation would be below headline inflation owing to growth in indirect taxes. The full-year decline in GDP was estimated at 4.4% in the new forecast for 2009. Positive year-on-year growth in GDP was forecasted for 2010, although this growth was expected to slow gradually in the course of the year owing to slackening demand for Czech exports, rising unemployment and restrictive domestic fiscal policy. Economic growth was expected to reach 1.4% in 2010 and to speed up slightly to 2.2% in 2011. The exchange rate of the koruna would be broadly stable over the forecast horizon. Consistent with the forecast was a decline in market interest rates this year followed by a gradual rise in 2010. The risks to the baseline scenario of the forecast were viewed as modestly inflationary, main because of the depreciation of the exchange rate at the time the forecast was prepared.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, some of the board members stated that the decision-making on monetary policy interest rates was going on in an environment of unusually high uncertainty. The prevailing view was that monetary policy rates had fallen to a sufficiently low level to allow the economy to cope with the fall in aggregate demand. Leaving monetary policy rates unchanged should be enough to enable monetary-policy relevant inflation to return into the lower half of the tolerance band around the inflation target at the forecast horizon.  In support of maintaining the current level of monetary policy rates, it was repeatedly argued that it was risky to make monetary policy changes in an environment of major uncertainty, which is heading in both directions. Doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether a slight reduction in interest rates now and a subsequent increase several quarters later could have any value added in a situation where the very low inflation was linked primarily with insufficient external demand. The current exchange rate of the koruna, which was weaker than assumed by the forecast, was identified as an upside risk to inflation, as was the possibility of a further movement of the exchange rate in the depreciation direction due to the uncertainty regarding economic activity and public finances in the domestic economy going forward. It was also said that excessively low interest rates might create a risk to financial stability in the future. In this context, attention was drawn to the surprising upswing in supply prices of property in the domestic economy. Against this, it was argued that property transfer prices had dropped quite sharply.  The conclusions of a sensitivity scenario quantifying the impacts of a possible slowdown in potential output growth were given as an argument for leaving interest rates unchanged. Another aim of this scenario had been to identify the impacts of a W-shaped recovery in economic activity. Annual inflation was higher than forecasted at the horizon of this scenario, despite lower GDP and nominal wage growth. The results showed that a downward shock to long-run equilibrium paths would have fundamental monetary policy implications, since it would create a need to maintain interest rates at higher nominal levels.  Some of the board members, by contrast, identified the balance of risks as being broadly anti-inflationary, pointing to the fact that monetary-policy relevant inflation would be below the point target almost over the entire forecast horizon, even after the decrease in market rates consistent with the November forecast. Insufficiently fast convergence of short-term market interest rates to the monetary policy rate level was identified as a downside risk to inflation. However, the opinion was repeatedly expressed that the CNB monetary policy transmission mechanism was sufficiently functional, especially as regards the exchange rate channel. Against this, it was said that the effectiveness of the interest rate channel might be weakened at a very low interest rate level. The Board therefore again discussed other monetary policy options for reducing the credit risk premium.  The conclusions of a nominal wage sensitivity scenario quantifying the impacts of potential lower nominal wage growth at the forecast horizon were identified as an argument for a further easing of the interest rate conditions. In support of the conclusions of this scenario, it was repeatedly said that many non-financial corporations would have to cut costs through zero or negative wage growth in 2010 because of the need to keep their margins positive.  The Board then assessed the signs of recovery in the international and domestic economy. The fairly strong consumption persistence of Czech households, which was slowing the decline in aggregate demand, was identified as a factor supporting moderate optimism. Attention was also drawn to the surprising recovery in prices of some assets abroad. Another factor suggesting a recovery of the global economy was quite high capacity utilisation in the area of commodities, whose prices might turn into a major inflationary factor again. Against this, the opinion was expressed that the domestic economic recovery assumed by the forecast was pretty uncertain, as even the quite dynamic economic growth in Asia and Latin America was unable to create the necessary demand stimulus for European economies. Another argument against the current wave of optimism was the relatively tight financial conditions facing domestic and foreign non-financial corporations, despite falling nominal interest rates on loans, as a result of the falling prices of their output. Also mentioned as a factor hindering renewed economic growth was the potential effect of fiscal restrictions in the domestic economy and in countries scaling down their anti-recession fiscal measures in the future.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1.25%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Vice-Governor Hampl, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Three members voted for lowering rates by 0.25 percentage point: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer and Chief Executive Director Tomšík.