The meeting opened with a presentation of the fifth situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. The domestic economy was being strongly affected by the adverse external situation. Inflation had continued falling in 2009 Q2, going below the lower boundary of the inflation-target tolerance band. Economic activity had declined. According to new figures this decline was larger by comparison with the information available at the time the previous forecast had been drawn up. The economic downturn was feeding through with a lag into the labour market in the form of rising unemployment and slowing wage growth. The anti-inflationary effect of the economic decline was being partly offset by a weakening exchange rate.  According to the new forecast, inflation would continue falling in 2009 Q3. Thereafter, it would converge slowly from low positive values towards the inflation target, which it would reach at the end of 2010. The economic decline had bottomed out in 2009 Q2, according to the new forecast. In Q3, the Czech economy would start to show positive quarter-on-quarter growth rates. The full-year decline was currently estimated at almost 4%, which was more than the previous forecast had indicated. The new forecast was predicting a return to modest growth in 2010. The exchange rate of the koruna would be modestly appreciating over the forecast horizon. Consistent with the forecast was a decline in market interest rates this year followed by a gradual rise from 2010 H2 onwards.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board began its discussion. It was said repeatedly that a reduction in rates was consistent with the new forecast. The Board agreed that by comparison with the previous forecast the risks were smaller and could be viewed as being broadly anti-inflationary. The opinions were also expressed that the risks were more symmetrically distributed compared to the previous meeting and that the external forecast risks could now be found on both the upside and the downside.  The Board discussed the risks of the forecast. The main downside risks to inflation included unused production capacity, the deteriorating labour market situation, the possibility of a slower-than-expected decrease in the credit premium, and also the recent appreciation of the exchange rate. The upside risks considered included the lagged effect of the previous depreciation of the exchange rate, rising unit wage costs, and the possibility of a correction in food and commodity prices, which can be highly volatile.  In this context, the Board discussed some issues related to monetary policy transmission. It was considered whether it was realistic to assume that the depreciation of the currency would be reflected in domestic prices with a longer lag or whether it was more likely that the weak exchange rate had merely moderated the fall in tradables prices. It was said repeatedly that an important assumption of the forecast was that of gradual convergence of short-term market rates towards monetary policy rates. It was said that this assumption might be limited by an only slowly falling risk premium. On the other hand, the effect of fiscal policy on long-term rates was already observable. It was also said that a reduction in monetary policy rates was desirable notwithstanding the hampered monetary policy transmission.  The Board went on to examine the growth outlook for the Czech economy. The growth sources that would lead to renewed GDP growth were discussed. The Board agreed that there were numerous uncertainties surrounding the growth forecast and that a key factor would be the speed and intensity of the external recovery. It was said that in the logic of the new forecast the recovery should be driven over the forecast horizon by investment, a hypothesis which would be confirmed only if a more robust recovery were to occur abroad. It was said several times that the forecasted recovery was very modest. Consequently, the domestic economy would reach its 2008 level only gradually, hence no major demand-pull inflation pressures could be expected over the forecast horizon. The role of consumption was identified as another important factor of the recovery. It was said repeatedly that the new data on higher-than-expected consumption growth pointed to a stabilising role of consumption and suggested that households were compensating for falling wages by means of transfers and savings. However, the opinions were also expressed that the rising unemployment and the lagged impacts of the fall in GDP on the labour market might negatively affect consumption in the quarters ahead.  Given the large influence of external developments on the new forecast, the Board also discussed the global situation. It was said several times that the external forecasts predicting a relatively rapid rebound might be overly optimistic. The factors mentioned as possibly leading to a less optimistic outlook included the existence of spare production capacity, for which new uses would need to be found, the potential impacts of fiscal restrictions in countries ending their expansionary response to the crisis, and the potential restrictive impacts of the termination of use of unconventional monetary policy instruments by some central banks. In this context, it was discussed whether the exit from quantitative easing might have a bearing on prices of oil and other commodities. It was said that these prices might fall and that this possibility presented a downside risk to inflation with regard to the forecast. On the other hand, the opinion was expressed that the external recovery might also come sooner than predicted in the new forecast. In this context, it was also said that given the causes of the current crisis, which had included excessively easy monetary policy on the part of some foreign central banks, the monetary policy approach might change in the future, leading in the longer run to higher foreign rates.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.25%, effective 7 August 2009. At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 0.25% and 2.25% respectively. Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted in favour of this decision.