The meeting opened with a presentation of the second situation report assessing the newly available information and its impact on the risks to the fulfilment of the inflation forecast from the first situation report.  The main inflationary factor was a smaller-than-expected fall in annual inflation, which in February had been 0.5 percentage points above the forecast. This deviation had been due to food prices and fuel prices in roughly equal measure. Another upside risk to the forecast was easier monetary conditions owing to a weaker exchange rate and to lower market interest rates. The main downside factor was a change in the external outlook, with a further deepening of the economic decline in the euro area, lower world inflation and lower foreign interest rates expected. Domestic GDP growth had responded to the sharp downswing in foreign economic activity, having come in 1.3 percentage points below the prediction in 2008 Q4.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new information and the risks to the February forecast. The Board agreed that the uncertainty associated with future developments was very high. Some of the board members argued that this uncertainty was acting in both directions. It was said that the key factor for the Board’s decision-making was the ratio of the relative weight of demand disinflation to the cost-push inflation factors. It was also said that in the present uncertain situation the model results had less relevance, hence the deviation of actual inflation from the prediction also had less significance than under standard conditions.  A large part of the aforementioned uncertainty was associated with external developments. Doubts were expressed about whether the forecast for renewed economic growth in the USA at the turn of 2009 and 2010 was realistic. The Board also discussed the risk of a further potential deterioration in the external outlook. In the context of an expected reduction of interest rates in the euro area, it was said that this reduction might lead to an appreciation of the koruna exchange rate to the levels predicted by the forecast, which, in turn, might weaken the domestic upside risks to inflation. In this context, however, the opinion was expressed that the expected lowering of interest rates by the ECB would be a response to an economic deterioration in the euro area, which, via a fall in Czech exports, a current account deterioration and a rise in the risk premium, might conversely generate depreciation pressures, constituting an upside risk to inflation. Turning to the downside risks, the effect of world energy prices was also mentioned. It was also said that by comparison with many other economies, the Czech situation was more favourable, as the symmetry of the inflation risks allowed the CNB to concentrate on targeting inflation in the longer run.  In the context of the structure of the fall in GDP growth in 2008 Q4, the sharp decline in the contribution of net exports was discussed in particular. Some of the board members expressed their conviction that the depreciation of the exchange rate in the second half of 2008 might make Czech exporters more competitive and thus partly soften the impacts of the downswing in external economic activity. In addition, the negative error of the prediction for growth in government final consumption expenditure was mentioned. Although at first glance this might suggest a rather surprising fiscal restriction, it had been caused merely by an error in the estimate of the government consumption deflator. The structure of the growth in fixed investment was also discussed. Here, in addition to a decrease in the contribution of investment in buildings and structures, there had been a rather illogical positive contribution of investment in transport equipment. The contribution of these two demand components to the total economic growth, however, had been relatively small.  Considerable attention was also given to developments in the labour market, where the number of vacancies was continuing to fall and unemployment was on the rise. Based on the current shape of the Beveridge curve, a hypothesis of a possible structural deterioration in the labour market was put forward. The board members also discussed the potential impacts of the fall in labour productivity in industry and construction and the related sharp rise in nominal unit wage costs. In this context, the upside risk of these costs on inflation was mentioned, but the prevailing view overall was that this rise was only temporary in nature. Nominal unit wage costs would decline again via a slowdown in wage growth and via further lay-offs, both of which would have an anti-inflationary effect. Many other uncertainties and distortions were also associated with developments in the labour market. In particular, the Board discussed the possible distortion of the average wage statistics due to reductions in working hours, the distortion of wage growth associated with tax optimisation at the end of 2007, the mismatch between average wage growth and hourly wage growth, and the surprising rise in employment in the tertiary sector.  Some of the board members discussed the transmission of the fall in monetary policy rates to client loan rates, as rates on new loans to non-financial corporations were decreasing, rates on loans for housing purposes were flat and rates on consumer credit were rising. The prevailing view was that the liquidity situation had improved since the autumn and that the response of client interest rates was logically consistent with the client risk profile structure. The comparatively high growth in the money supply, driven mainly by growth in currency in circulation, was also mentioned as a partial upside inflation factor.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1.75%. Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted in favour of this decision.