The meeting opened with a presentation of the fourth situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the inflation forecast contained in the third situation report. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being broadly balanced. The higher inflation observed in May was an upside risk to inflation. The deviation of inflation by 0.3 percentage points from the forecast had been caused by higher-than-expected growth in fuel prices and regulated prices. By contrast, the indicators of the domestic real economy were generally anti-inflationary: annual GDP growth had been 0.7 percentage points lower than forecasted, the decline in total employment had increased, and wage growth had been lower than expected. A further decline in the interest rate outlook in the euro area was also fostering lower inflation, or lower domestic interest rates, especially at the more distant forecast horizon. As regards the monetary conditions, slightly higher short-term market interest rates were acting towards lower-than-forecasted inflation, whereas the exchange rate of the Czech koruna was weaker against both the euro and the dollar.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that the balance of risks to the inflation forecast was currently broadly balanced. However, it was also said that the general uncertainties of the forecast were still comparatively high. Some of the board members also expressed doubts about the mutual consistency of some of the available macroeconomic indicators. In this context, the better-than-expected evolution of household consumption in the first quarter of 2010 was discussed. This had been inconsistent with the evolution of retail sales and wage growth. It was pointed out that any revision of demand towards lower private consumption would represent an additional anti-inflationary risk.  In the discussion of the lower-than-forecasted GDP growth and the structure of GDP formation, mention was made of the sharp decline in construction output. It was said that this reflected households’ reluctance to spend combined with government austerity measures.  As regards the upside risks to inflation, some of the board members emphasised the evolution of prices of oil and other commodities. However, it was also argued that although the higher-than-forecasted inflation had been driven primarily by higher fuel prices, the outlook for dollar prices of oil had been revised downwards. In this context, mention was also made of the hypothesis of possible growth in the commodity price bubble in response to the international monetary policy easing. The impacts of high growth in commodity prices on inflation might be more sizeable than usual, even in a situation of low demand, because producers’ margins had already been squeezed to low levels and probably could not be reduced much further.  The Board also spent quite some time discussing fiscal policy in the Czech Republic and elsewhere. It was said that the current development of domestic public finances suggested the possibility of a higher government deficit this year. By contrast, the planned budget austerity measures could mean a lower than currently forecasted deficit for next year. Fiscal policy could therefore foster lower economic growth and lower inflation next year. Against this, however, it was said that the anti-growth impacts of a well-executed fiscal consolidation could be only short term and that such consolidation could conversely generate significant stabilising and pro-growth effects associated with increased confidence. With regard to the planned fiscal austerity measures in other countries, some of the board members mentioned that the euro area could be heading towards a different economic policy mix, with tighter fiscal policy and looser monetary policy.  The Board went on to discuss the rise in the risk premium in the domestic money market, which might be affected by contagion from abroad due to the fiscal problems in certain countries. In this regard, doubts were repeatedly raised about the forecast assumption of a decline in the spread between short-term market rates and the key monetary policy rate, which has not materialised for quite some time now. On the other hand, however, it was mentioned that the impacts of the adverse developments in the euro area on the Czech economy might be at least partially offset by asymmetrical trends across the euro area countries, with the Czech economy being linked to the stronger of these countries.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted in favour of this decision.