The meeting opened with a presentation of the fifth situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. The domestic economic situation was characterised by modest economic growth. Inflation was in the lower half of the tolerance band around the inflation target and was gradually rising. Net inflation was steadily rebounding from its previous low values. Headline inflation was also being affected by this year’s upswing in regulated price inflation, due, among other things, to renewed growth in natural gas prices. The labour market was still being affected by the fading recession. Wage growth had slowed sharply, while the general unemployment rate was expected to peak in the next few quarters.  According to the new forecast, inflation would be close to the inflation target at the monetary policy horizon and the economic recovery would be modest. Full-year growth for 2010 was now estimated at 1.6%. The new forecast was predicting full-year growth of 1.8% in 2011 and almost 3% in 2012. GDP growth in 2010 and 2011 would be stimulated by investment activity related to gradual replenishment of inventories and by net exports. From 2011 onwards, household consumption would also recover gradually. This outlook for economic activity did not yet include the effects of the planned consolidation of public budgets. The exchange rate would be gradually appreciating at the forecast horizon. Consistent with the forecast was stability of market interest rates close to their current levels initially, followed by a gradual rise in rates as from 2011 H2.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board began its discussion. The board members agreed that the appropriate monetary policy response was to leave rates at the current level. It was also said that the risks were distributed on either side around the new forecast and that they could currently be identified as slightly anti-inflationary overall. It was said repeatedly that the current exchange rate and the demand effect of the planned fiscal consolidation were among the downside risks to inflation, while the upside risks of the new forecast included potentially faster growth in commodity and food prices.  The Board assessed inflation and the inflation forecast. It was said repeatedly that according to the new forecast both headline inflation and monetary-policy relevant inflation would be close to the inflation target and that such a stable outlook was quite a rare occurrence. The board members agreed that the current interest rate settings were therefore appropriate.  The Board went on to discuss the risks that should be considered in relation to the stable outlook. The opinion was expressed that given the forecast risks it was not possible to anticipate any future change in rates unequivocally. It was also said that maintaining rates at a low level in the long term could pose a risk in terms of financial stability. It was said several times that there was a need to closely monitor the relatively rapid recovery of the German economy. This recovery was identified as surprising given the original expectation that the US economy would be the main source of recovery. It was said that this recovery might speed up the recovery in Czech exports and growth in European consumer prices and foreign interest rates relative to the new forecast. The opinion was repeatedly expressed that the surprising recovery might also paradoxically represent a downside risk to inflation in relation to the new forecast, because it might foster appreciation of the koruna via a recovery in exports and growth in foreign interest rates. However, the opinion was also expressed that this recovery might also be an upside risk to inflation if European consumer price inflation was to rise, as such a rise could pass through indirectly to domestic inflation via import prices and growth in currently squeezed margins.  The Board examined the issue of profit margins in more detail. The board members considered how likely it was that profit margins would return to their pre-crisis levels. It was said that profit margins had been squeezed to low values at the time of the crisis. It was said several times that producers had responded to the reduction in margins by cutting costs and that margins would therefore not necessarily increase again now. However, it was also said several times that a return to higher margins was possible as soon as the economy began to recover more quickly and that this possibility should be viewed as an upside risk to inflation. In this context it was said that potential output was currently falling as a result of the crisis and that this might also generate inflation pressures. On the other hand, it was said that the fall in potential output was being generated by the elimination of excess capacity and therefore did not represent a significant inflationary risk.  The Board went on to discuss other potential upside risks to inflation. It was said several times that the inflationary risks of the forecast were more on the cost side than on the demand side and that in particular the recent trend in commodity and food prices should be viewed as an inflationary risk of the current forecast. However, the opinion was also expressed that a stronger exchange rate of the koruna might dampen any inflation pressures stemming from growth in commodity and food prices. It was also said that a faster-than-expected economic recovery might affect the labour market. In this context it was said that unemployment might peak earlier than suggested by the new forecast. The historical data on which the forecast was based were indicating a greater burden on the labour market owing to one-off restructuring, but this restructuring was no longer encumbering the economy. It was also said that demographic trends were easing the pressure on the labour market. Conversely, it was said that the planned fiscal cuts would very probably slow growth in some sectors and that this slowdown would ease the wage pressures in the event of any faster recovery in demand for Czech exports.  The Board noted that the forecast did not include information on the changes being planned by the new government in the fiscal policy area. This information would be incorporated into the next forecast, because a more precise knowledge of the as yet unavailable legislation implementing the planned changes was needed before they could be taken into account comprehensively. The Board agreed that in this sense the next forecast would be important and the fiscal policy sensitivity scenario illustrating the potential demand effects was a key piece of information. It was said several times that the sensitivity scenario showed that these demand effects were an anti-inflationary risk of the new forecast.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Tomšík, Chief Executive Director Janáček, Chief Executive Director Řežábek and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted in favour of this decision.