The meeting opened with a presentation of the third situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. In 2010 Q1, headline inflation had remained low and had been below the lower boundary of the tolerance band around the inflation target. Monetary-policy relevant inflation, i.e. inflation adjusted for the first-round effects of changes to indirect taxes, had turned slightly negative in Q1. The year-on-year contraction in real GDP had moderated further in 2009 Q4, while in quarter-on-quarter terms economic activity had continued to rise. Employment had kept declining and unemployment was increasing. Average nominal wage growth had gone up owing to some extraordinary factors. Import prices had been anti-inflationary as a result of the past exchange rate appreciation and low inflation abroad. The inflation pressures from the domestic economy were of little significance.  The new May forecast predicted that headline inflation would gradually rise this year. Owing to tax changes already implemented, it would increase slightly above the inflation target of 2% at the end of the year. In 2011, inflation would be just below the target. Monetary-policy relevant inflation would approach the target from below. Economic activity would rise, but higher growth this year would be prevented by a temporary cooling of domestic consumption and external demand. According the forecast, the nominal exchange rate would appreciate slightly. Consistent with the forecast was a modest decline in market interest rates initially, followed by stability and a gradual rise in rates as from 2011.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing view was that the overall macroeconomic environment was anti-inflationary and that the appropriate response would be to lower rates. The Board agreed that monetary policy decision-making was encumbered with greater uncertainty owing to the debt problems in certain countries. It was also said that this uncertainty was increasing the inflation risks on both sides and that greater uncertainty could also be an argument for stable rates.  A key assumption for growth of domestic economic activity is the external demand outlook. The prevailing view in the discussion was that there were anti-inflationary risks of lower economic growth abroad owing to the fiscal situation in certain indebted euro area countries. It was said that this might jeopardise fulfilment of the inflation target at the forecast horizon. It was also said that the emerging economic recovery abroad might be hindered by lower bank lending activity, because the planned regulatory measures were increasing uncertainty in the financial sector, which had not yet fully recovered from the consequences of the financial and economic crisis.  In the context of the external outlook it was said that the forecasted rise in market interest rates abroad was getting more distant. Compared to the previous forecast the outlook for market interest rates abroad was substantially lower and their expected growth was slower. Lower rates were one of the main arguments for a lower outlook for domestic market rates.  In the discussion of the risks of the inflation forecast it was mentioned that adjusted inflation excluding fuels had been very low in 2010 Q1. Monetary-policy relevant inflation would therefore approach the inflation target from below more slowly at the forecast horizon. The currently weaker exchange rate was identified as an upside risk to inflation by some of the board members. A rapid weakening of the exchange rate could be a risk to inflation, and a reduction of monetary policy rates might further contribute to that risk. However, the prevailing view was that the current depreciation was only transitory and that fulfilment of the inflation target at the forecast horizon was not at risk. The risk of higher inflation due to higher oil prices – fostered by a stronger dollar – was also mentioned in the discussion. However, it was also said that lower external demand in the euro area would suppress growth in oil prices via lower demand for energy-producing commodities and also that the risk of pass-through of higher prices of oil and other commodities to domestic inflation was not significant.  It was said that the still large difference between market interest rates and monetary policy rates should also be a reason for lowering rates. The forecast was predicting a gradual decrease in the risk premium. Concern was expressed that the risk premium might start increasing again owing to the fiscal situation in certain euro area countries. A higher risk premium might constrain the financial sector’s lending activity and thus reduce the expected growth in external demand.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage point to 0.75%, effective 7 May 2010. At the same time it decided to lower the Lombard rate by the same amount, to 1.75%. The discount rate was left unchanged at 0.25%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer and Chief Executive Director Tomšík. Two members voted for leaving interest rates unchanged: Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Řežábek.