dovish	It was also said that current inflation was below the inflation target and the fact that it was measured using a new index was not relevant, as the new index had brought the consumer basket structure more into line with reality. 
dovish	According the new forecast a modest slowdown in economic growth and persisting low monetary policy inflation (i.e. consumer price inflation adjusted for the first-round effects of indirect taxes) could be expected. 
dovish	Compared to the previous macroeconomic forecast from October last year, expected inflation and forecast-consistent interest rates had been revised downwards. 
dovish	Opinions were also expressed that a future rate cut could not be ruled out, depending on how the situation develops. 
dovish	Compared to the previous macroeconomic forecast from October last year, expected inflation and forecast-consistent interest rates had been revised downwards. 
dovish	On the other hand, however, it was said that the lower-than-expected inflation, even though resulting from a change in the basket structure, was a downside risk of the forecast, or a risk of non-fulfilment of the inflation target.
dovish	In this context, it was also said that monetary policy, ceteris paribus, should react to lower inflation.
dovish	On the other hand, however, it was said that consumer credit growth was slowing.
dovish	A role had been played by the new definition of the consumer basket and lower-than-expected inflation in a number of segments.
dovish	It was said that, aside from the impacts of the indirect tax increases, the planned reform of public finances would also probably generate a slowdown in demand-pull inflation impulses. 
dovish	A downside risk, by contrast, was August inflation, which at 2.4% in annual terms had come in 0.2 percentage point lower than forecasted, mainly due to adjusted inflation excluding fuels.
dovish	Against this, it was said that the reduction in the budget deficit would probably mean a fall in expenditure and hence a decrease in government consumption.
dovish	In the context of the turmoil on the financial markets, the Board agreed that lower growth abroad and, as a result, weaker external demand could be expected by comparison with the forecast assumptions. 
dovish	The Board discussed the current evolution of the exchange rate and agreed that its present level was strongly anti-inflationary compared to the forecast.
dovish	The forecast had responded to the changes in the global environment, in particular the significant fall in the one-year EURIBOR interest rate path resulting from the financial market turmoil, the uncertainty regarding its impact on real economic activity and the resulting monetary policy response.
dovish	In line with this, real GDP growth would slow from the 6.2% expected this year to 5% in 2008 and then speed up again to 5.6% in 2009.
dovish	During a discussion of the aggregate demand situation the Board agreed that owing to the turbulence and heightened nervousness in the financial markets there was a risk of lower-than-expected growth abroad and, as a result, weaker external demand.
dovish	By contrast, the downside factors included a substantially stronger exchange rate, a slightly lower expected level of economic activity in the third quarter and an outlook of somewhat slower economic growth abroad.
dovish	The overall risks of the forecast were assessed as being slightly on the downside, with the principal upside and downside risks diverging to either side rather significantly.
dovish	Some of the board members expressed concerns about potential persistence of the adverse consequences of the mortgage crisis for the financial sector and about a possible future slowdown in euro area growth.
dovish	Attention was given to signals of a possible modest downturn in domestic economic activity in the third quarter of 2007.
dovish	Further dampening of inflationary pressures would be aided by a slowdown in economic growth.
dovish	The new forecast responded among other things to changes in the external environment, where the financial market turbulence was starting to adversely affect the economic growth of the major global economies.
dovish	The economic activity outlook for the euro area countries had been lowered.
dovish	Against this, it was argued that the previously mentioned slowdown in global economic activity, which might turn out to be far more significant than forecasted, might adversely affect the economic growth of the Czech Republic.
dovish	The possibility of significantly lower interest rates in the euro area was discussed in the context of the recent dramatic interest rate reduction in the USA. 
dovish	The slowdown in global economic activity might also lead to some easing of the demand pressures on world prices of food and oil, which in the recent past had risen sharply and had thus contributed to the cost shock to Czech prices.
dovish	The newly available information suggested that the risks to inflation in relation to the February forecast were on both the upside and the downside, but had moved towards the downside overall.
dovish	By contrast, the lower-than-expected wage growth at the end of 2007 could be termed a downside risk in relation to the forecast.
dovish	The external environment and also the current settings of the monetary conditions were included among the downside risks.
dovish	The financial crisis in some segments of the international credit market could lead to a downswing in European economic growth.
dovish	The downside risks included an expected slowdown in external demand and appreciation of the koruna exchange rate.
dovish	It was repeatedly noted that the crisis in the US financial markets and the slowdown of the US economy could have an anti-inflationary effect.
dovish	By 2009, the real economy was expected to turn anti-inflationary, as a result of a tight exchange rate component of the monetary conditions, restrictive fiscal policy and weaker external demand.
dovish	In addition, it was likely that the exchange rate shock would temporarily slow investment activity, and a dampening effect on the labour market could also be expected.
dovish	The prevailing view was that the anti-inflationary effect of the strong exchange rate would be significant, thanks mainly to effective competition in the tradable goods sector.
dovish	Slowing credit growth might therefore be expected. 
dovish	GDP growth would continue slowing in the coming quarters owing to the dampening effect of the very strong exchange rate and weak external demand on export growth and also as a result of slowing gross capital formation.
dovish	The recent correction in the commodity markets was identified as a downside risk to inflation, as commodity prices might stabilise at lower levels than assumed by the forecast.
dovish	At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to lower the CNB two-week repo rate to 3.50%, effective 8 August 2004.
dovish	At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 2.50% and 4.50% respectively.
dovish	It was mentioned that this development might be linked with cooling economic growth and falling consumer confidence abroad.
dovish	At 6.5%, inflation in August had been 0.3 percentage point lower than forecasted.
dovish	The exchange rate, which had, on average, appreciated more markedly than forecasted during the third quarter, was also acting in a slightly anti-inflationary directio
dovish	The Board agreed that the overall balance of risks posed a slight downside risk to inflation. 
dovish	The Board stated that the slowdown in economic growth owing to the worse external demand outlook could be more significant than forecasted.
dovish	It was mentioned that the outlook for external demand was deteriorating significantly and the effects of the financial crisis would undoubtedly also appear in Europe.
dovish	The domestic economy was continuing to decline from the peak of the business cycle.
dovish	The board members agreed that the overall balance of risks to inflation was clearly on the downside and that the new information received since the previous monetary policy meeting and since the completion of the new forecast was tending towards a more significant reduction of interest rates.
dovish	In particular, the outlook for the euro area was deteriorating, interest rates were falling around the world, and prices of commodities, energy-producing materials and food were decreasing sharply.
dovish	The Board stated that the domestic economy was currently exposed to an unusual combination of anti-inflationary shocks of a cost, exchange rate and demand nature. 
dovish	The downswing in economic activity abroad was gradually transmitting to the domestic economy as a result of the latter?s strong export orientation.
dovish	At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate.
dovish	Both the situation report and the assessment of the latest data implied a clear anti-inflationary balance of risks for the forecast.
dovish	The Board agreed that the external environment in particular was a source of sizeable anti-inflationary shocks.
dovish	At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate.
dovish	The domestic economy was continuing to decline from the peak of the business cycle.
dovish	According to the new forecast, inflation would fall this year and would approach zero in mid-2009. 
dovish	Consistent with the forecast was a decline in interest rates.
dovish	The board members agreed that the appropriate response to the current situation was to lower rates.
dovish	The Board agreed that the Czech economy, which is highly open, would be hard hit by the slump in external demand.
dovish	A slump in production capacity utilisation would imply a need to adapt to the new market conditions in the Czech economy and abroad. 
dovish	Considerable attention was also given to developments in the labour market, where the number of vacancies was continuing to fall and unemployment was on the rise. 
dovish	Owing to the deepening global economic crisis, the economic situation had been less favourable in this period than assumed by the previous forecast. 
dovish	As regards inflation expectations, it was said that a decrease could be expected. 
dovish	In response to the sharp economic downswing abroad, domestic GDP had fallen in 2009 Q1 by 0.9 percentage point more than forecasted. 
dovish	It was said repeatedly that a reduction in rates was consistent with the new forecast.
dovish	It was said several times that the external forecasts predicting a relatively rapid rebound might be overly optimistic. 
dovish	The rate of growth of potential output might also slow, so the lower economic growth would not necessarily have an anti-inflationary effect and consequently would not necessitate a monetary policy easing. 
dovish	The Board stated that the fiscal measures would imply a restriction of demand, which would have an anti-inflationary effect.
dovish	Inflation had continued falling in 2009 Q3, fluctuating well below the lower boundary of the inflation-target tolerance band. 
dovish	On the one hand, it was argued that a reduction of interest rates was desirable since it would allow the interest rate differential to decrease.
dovish	The Board then discussed GDP, which had recorded a lower-than-forecasted year-on-year decline. 
dovish	Headline inflation had risen in 2009 Q4, but had remained below the lower boundary of the tolerance band around the inflation target.
dovish	According to the forecast, no domestic inflation pressures were currently visible.
dovish	The decline in employment had deepened further and unemployment had increased. 
dovish	In year-on-year terms, GDP had continued falling, doing so faster than the forecast had assumed.
dovish	However, some of the board members expressed the view that the aforementioned anti-inflationary risks were so significant that a downward movement of interest rates could be imagined if they were to materialise.
dovish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing view was that the overall macroeconomic environment was anti-inflationary and that the appropriate response would be to lower rates.
dovish	The prevailing view in the discussion was that there were anti-inflationary risks of lower economic growth abroad owing to the fiscal situation in certain indebted euro area countries. 
dovish	By contrast, the indicators of the domestic real economy were generally anti-inflationary: annual GDP growth had been 0.7 percentage points lower than forecasted, the decline in total employment had increased, and wage growth had been lower than expected.
dovish	In the discussion of the lower-than-forecasted GDP growth and the structure of GDP formation, mention was made of the sharp decline in construction output.
dovish	It was said that this reflected households? reluctance to spend combined with government austerity measures.
dovish	Fiscal policy could therefore foster lower economic growth and lower inflation next year. 
dovish	The labour market was still being affected by the fading recession. 
dovish	It was said repeatedly that the current exchange rate and the demand effect of the planned fiscal consolidation were among the downside risks to inflation
dovish	Lower inflation had been fostered by a stronger exchange rate and the impacts of the proposed fiscal consolidation. 
dovish	Doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether the GDP growth forecast of 1.2% for 2011 was not too pessimistic. 
dovish	In this regard, it was said that even though the uncertainty associated with expected GDP growth was high, there was spare capacity in the economy and the output gap was significantly negative.
dovish	The inflation pressures were therefore very subdued.
dovish	GDP growth would temporarily slow to 1.6% in 2011 as a result of fiscal consolidation, a decline in some specific investments and investment in inventories, and slowing growth in external economic activity.
dovish	Monetary aggregate growth in the Czech Republic and in the euro area was currently subdued and not indicating any danger of inflation.
dovish	The initial inflationary pressures stemming from the domestic economy were not significant at present, owing to weak domestic demand and low wage growth.
dovish	Economic growth would slow to 1.5% this year as a result of fiscal restriction, fading investment in inventories and slowing external economic activity.
dovish	The debt problems in some euro area countries were a downside risk.
dovish	The prevailing view was that domestic demand was subdued and that GDP growth would slow further this year.
dovish	Economic growth would be dampened by fiscal consolidation, slackening growth in external economic activity, fading investment in inventories and by the debt problems in the euro area and elsewhere. 
dovish	Lower-than-expected growth abroad and an escalation of the debt problems of certain euro area countries were sources of increased uncertainty. 
dovish	The risks of the forecast were tilted slightly towards lower inflation and significantly towards lower interest rates.
dovish	Annual GDP growth had been 2.2% in Q2, i.e. 0.3 percentage point lower than forecasted. Annual inflation had been 1.7% in August, i.e. 0.4 percentage point lower than forecasted.
dovish	Monetary-policy relevant inflation would be slightly below the inflation target over the entire forecast horizon. 
dovish	Economic growth would slow in the remainder of 2011 and further in 2012, mainly in response to a contraction in external demand and owing to fiscal consolidation.
dovish	 The Board agreed that the risks and uncertainties were currently extremely high and that the majority of them would come from abroad, owing mainly to the escalation of the debt crisis in the euro area.
dovish	It was said several times that the situation in the euro area could be assessed as anti-inflationary owing to reduced outlooks for economic growth, inflation and the interest rate path.
dovish	It was said that the demand-pull inflation pressures in the domestic economy would be insignificant this year owing to the absence of GDP growth, fiscal consolidation and also lower household purchasing power because of the VAT increase.
dovish	The annual growth of the domestic economy ? driven solely by net exports ? had recorded a further noticeable slowdown in 2011 Q4.
dovish	By contrast, the slow growth of the domestic economy was dampening inflation.
dovish	Domestic economic activity was also anti-inflationary by comparison with the baseline scenario, as GDP had fallen by 0.7 percentage point year on year in 2012 Q1 whereas the forecast had predicted stagnation.
dovish	Practically all components of GDP had been lower than forecasted.
dovish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the consensus was that the demand pressures from the domestic economy were currently very subdued and would remain anti-inflationary.
dovish	The prevailing view was that the economy did not currently have room for higher wage growth given the pessimism of domestic economic agents about the future economic situation.
dovish	Monetary-policy relevant inflation would decline below the target at the end of this year and would remain below it until the end of the forecast horizon. 
dovish	However, it was also said that a timely interest rate cut was the appropriate monetary policy response.
dovish	The Board discussed the causes of the worse growth outlook for the Czech economy.
dovish	It was said repeatedly that relatively pessimistic private sector expectations were a major factor, in addition to the negative growth outlook for the euro area and the impacts of fiscal consolidation, and that this pessimism was not necessarily in line with Czech economic fundamentals.
dovish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that domestic economic activity was subdued and therefore anti-inflationary.omestic economic activity was subdued and therefore anti-inflationary. 
dovish	In this context, it was mentioned that a rise in household savings accompanied by falling consumption represented a downside risk to inflation.
dovish	The Board discussed in detail the role of the exchange rate of the koruna as an anti-inflationary factor.
dovish	Most of the board members agreed that the appropriate monetary policy response was to lower rates to technical zero and keep them at this level over a longer horizon until inflation pressures increased significantly.
dovish	It was said repeatedly that inflation would be in the lower part of the tolerance band for the foreseeable future and that a decline in rates was consistent with this outlook.
dovish	It was said that new GDP figures confirmed that the economy was in recession.
dovish	It was said repeatedly that the anti-inflationary domestic economy was affecting the labour market.
dovish	It was said in the discussion that GDP growth was lagging behind the fundamentals of the Czech economy and that the weaker growth was due to low sentiment among households and corporations stemming from uncertainty at home and abroad.
dovish	Europe was described as being in a period of sustained low growth and burdened by numerous economic problems. 
dovish	The decline in real GDP had deepened to -1.7% in Q4, representing a decrease of 0.3 percentage point more than had been forecasted. 
dovish	It was said that the decline in net exports was also hardly a signal of sustained domestic economic recovery. 
dovish	The Board discussed the causes of the lower-than-forecasted household consumption growth in detail.
dovish	It was said that the spreading debt problems in the south of the euro area had undermined confidence within the external financial sector and that the lower sentiment was spreading to the external and domestic real economy.
dovish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that anti-inflationary factors had accumulated since the previous situation report and that no significant upside risks to inflation were apparent over the entire forecast horizon. 
dovish	This deviation had been due to lower gross capital formation as a result of a deeper decline in inventories. 
dovish	It was said that risks towards a need for easier monetary conditions had already been identified when the forecast was being discussed six weeks earlier and that the new data were strengthening this need. 
dovish	The majority of the board members also agreed that there was an increasing likelihood of commencing foreign exchange interventions in order to further ease monetary policy.
dovish	The Board also agreed that the appropriate response was to leave rates unchanged and to maintain them at technical zero over a longer horizon until inflation pressures increase significantly.
dovish	The economy was below its potential and was not emerging from the trough of the business cycle, and domestic demand was depressed.
dovish	The Board also decided to continue using the exchange rate as an additional instrument for easing the monetary conditions and confirmed the CNB?s commitment to intervene in the foreign exchange market to weaken the exchange rate so as to keep the exchange rate of the koruna against the euro close to CZK 27/EUR.
dovish	The domestic economy thus remained anti-inflationary in a context of very low nominal wage growth.
dovish	The risks to the current inflation forecast were on the downside mainly because of an unexpectedly large year-on-year decline in nominal wages in the business sector in 2013 Q4.
dovish	It was said repeatedly in this regard that the undershooting of the inflation target and the further accumulation of anti-inflationary risks in the domestic economy reflected insufficient monetary easing in past quarters.
dovish	The deflationary tendencies on the labour market were also posited as a possible explanation of the observed decline in wages in 2013 Q4.
dovish	It was said that in the euro area disinflationary pressures were still evident in consumer and producer prices, which were causing lower domestic inflation via slower growth in import prices.
dovish	It was said several times that inflation in the euro area was significantly below expectations, the price index outlooks were being revised downwards and there was no sign of any change that might have a further negative effect on domestic inflation in the future. 
dovish	However, the opinion was also expressed that production capacity was not yet fully utilised and the domestic economy was ceasing to be anti-inflationary rather than having a stronger inflationary effect. 
dovish	The low inflation had been due to a continuing decline in administered prices and subdued inflation in the euro area. 
dovish	It was also said that economic growth was not creating sufficient inflationary pressures as yet and that, on the contrary, disinflationary pressures from abroad were prevailing. 
dovish	Both headline and monetary policy-relevant inflation had decreased in Q4, remaining well below the lower boundary of the tolerance band around the target.
dovish	As expected, annual growth of the Czech economy had slowed to 1.5% in 2014 Q4.
dovish	The environment was currently one of low inflation, as evidenced in particular by low wage growth.
dovish	It was said that it was appropriate to continue with the easy monetary policy as currently configured.
dovish	Import prices were depressing inflation.
dovish	It was said several times that although the need for easy monetary conditions had decreased since the previous meeting, it remained high, as evidenced by the only slow return of inflation to the inflation target from below over the monetary policy horizon.
dovish	The deviation from the forecast had been due predominantly to a renewed decline in food prices, reflecting a drop in prices of food and agricultural commodities. 
dovish	The main causes of the fall in inflation had been a slowdown in annual food price inflation and an acceleration of the decline in fuel prices.
dovish	There was a consensus that it was appropriate to leave monetary policy rates at technical zero and that a need to maintain significantly easy monetary conditions persisted. 
dovish	It was said repeatedly that the drop in oil prices was a positive supply shock.
dovish	Prices of food and fuels had declined as a result of persisting anti-inflationary supply shocks from abroad
dovish	This would be due mainly to a fall in government investment as a result of an only gradual start to the drawdown of EU funds in the new programme period.
dovish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board assessed the risks to the new forecast as being slightly anti-inflationary.
dovish	There was a consensus that the balance of risks to the current forecast was slightly anti-inflationary at the monetary policy horizon. 
dovish	It was also said that in the short term the increased uncertainty would lead to a downturn in investment activity. 
dovish	A number of the board members nevertheless expressed doubts about the resumption of investment growth in 2016 H2 assumed in the forecast. 
dovish	It was mentioned repeatedly that, unlike headline inflation, adjusted inflation excluding fuels as an indicator of domestic demand-pull inflation pressures was still below the inflation target. 
dovish	Likewise, the currently very subdued government investment would revert to growth this year.
dovish	By contrast, the construction industry was still in decline as a result of a continued fall in infrastructure investment.
dovish	The inflation pressures would ease in the period ahead owing to rising labour productivity growth and a renewed anti-inflationary effect of import prices.
dovish	In the area of government investment, by contrast, the opinions were generally sceptical, partly due to slower drawdown of European funds.
dovish	Risks in this direction stemmed mainly from inflation, which had decreased faster at the start of this year than the CNB had expected.
dovish	According to the new forecast, inflation would stay slightly below the target this year.
dovish	It had been lower than forecasted, mainly as a result of a one-off shock to food price growth.
dovish	The Board also discussed the observed cooling of international trade, which was fuelling concerns of a potential stronger global growth slowdown.
dovish	Nevertheless, the overall inflation pressures in the domestic economy were easing somewhat, due mainly to a decline in import prices.
dovish	The growth of the Czech economy would slow in the quarters ahead due to weak growth in external demand and would return close to its potential rate at the end of next year.
dovish	Another issue discussed was the observed slowdown in domestic private investment growth linked with the slackening of economic growth abroad and its effect on domestic inflation.
dovish	According to a majority of its members, numerous indicators ? among them household consumption, employment, the average wage and the total volume of wages and salaries ? were rising rather more slowly than forecasted.
dovish	The aim of the meeting was to adopt, in a timely and flexible manner, stabilising monetary, macroprudential and microprudential policy measures to mitigate the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on price and financial stability and on the Czech economy.
dovish	Based on the available information, the Czech economy could be expected to slow sharply or even contract this year.
dovish	The strong domestic inflation pressures, which had been amplified by one-off factors at the start of the year, would fade quickly.
dovish	There was also an in-depth discussion of the exchange rate, which had depreciated significantly as a result of the substantially worse economic outlook and financial market panic.
dovish	In addition, the Board declared it was ready to cut interest rates further should the economic situation so require.
dovish	A majority of the board members felt that the risks to future inflation were tilted to the downside compared with the baseline scenario of the forecast.
dovish	The board members agreed that a worse course of the pandemic, longer lockdowns at home and abroad and an ensuing deterioration in the financial situation and sentiment of businesses and households were the main risk to the forecast.
dovish	This could lead to a lengthier cyclical downturn of the Czech economy and hence to a need to keep monetary conditions accommodative for longer than assumed in the baseline scenario of the forecast.
dovish	In addition to high prices of commodities and energy, these pressures reflected persisting problems in global production chains.
hawkish	It was stated in the discussion that this was consistent with the persisting attractiveness of the Czech economy and the still sufficient room for foreign direct investment inflow.
hawkish	The argument was also made that the appreciation of the Czech currency against the euro was linked with developments in the region and that the decision-making of large financial investors was not based solely on the interest rate differential. 
hawkish	There was a consensus that the upside risks to inflation also included the robust economic growth in neighbouring countries, as the latest indicators from these countries were even better than originally assumed in the forecast.
hawkish	The opinion was also expressed, however, that the risks to inflation were skewed slightly to the upside overall.
hawkish	The nominal exchange rate was identified as an upside risk to inflation. 
hawkish	Another upside risk to inflation mentioned was expected developments abroad, where the primary upside factors included a rise in interest rates in the euro area, leading to a widening of the negative interest rate differential, and also an increase in expected economic growth.
hawkish	In the context of the assessment of external developments it was said that the higher economic growth combined with the lower expected inflation perhaps suggested growth in potential output without the need to tighten monetary policy.
hawkish	The accelerating money supply growth was also identified as a potential medium-term upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	Higher expectations regarding economic growth and interest rates in the euro area were presented as a moderate upside risk. 
hawkish	The rising share of household consumption in GDP was mentioned as a moderate upside risk.
hawkish	Opinions were expressed that a more optimistic outlook for euro area growth and expectations of further ECB interest rate increases - together with their implications for domestic exchange rate developments - were moderate upside risks. 
hawkish	It was said that the decline in unemployment and some indications from the corporate sector suggested that the labour market would not be able to accommodate further economic growth easily.
hawkish	Workforce shortages could therefore increase pressures on inflation.
hawkish	According the forecast the Czech economy had been fluctuating above the non-accelerating inflation level of output for six quarters.
hawkish	The growth structure had changed, with consumption and investment now being the engines of economic growth. 
hawkish	It was said that the external environment - for instance the increase in the euro area growth estimate, but also the latest data on higher oil prices than expected in the forecast - could become an inflationary factor. 
hawkish	The Board agreed that the growth of the Czech economy would remain robust.
hawkish	It was also said that utilisation of production capacities was higher than in past years.
hawkish	It was said several times that unemployment was coming down fairly rapidly and that this might signal the onset of wage inflation pressures. 
hawkish	Four members voted in favour of this decision, and two members voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point.
hawkish	These risks were assessed in the situation report as being on the upside overall. 
hawkish	Annual consumer price inflation had risen to 2.5% in April and was thus 0.4 percentage points higher than forecasted. 
hawkish	Figures from the real economy suggested a risk of higher-than-expected GDP growth in the first quarter of 2007.
hawkish	There was a discussion about whether the upside risks of the forecast associated with the evolution of the domestic economy were already starting to materialise.
hawkish	The higher-than-forecasted rise in the consumer price index might thus have been due to a combination of several factors that were not linked with monetary policy, such as shifts in the seasonality of food prices, shifts in the timing of the impacts of the increase in indirect taxes and the of the rise in regulated prices, etc.
hawkish	The relatively sharp fall in the general unemployment rate compared to the forecast was identified as an upside factor, as it might lead to higher wage growth.
hawkish	In the light of the effects on economic growth and inflation in the Czech Republic, the Board also discussed the pick-up in economic growth in the euro area and the related revision of the external growth prospects. 
hawkish	At the close of the meeting the Board decided to increase the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage points to 2.75 %, effective 1 June 2007.
hawkish	At the same time it decided to increase the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 1.75 % and 3.75 % respectively. 
hawkish	The underlying domestic factors included new information from the labour market, including faster wage growth, along with an upswing in economic growth and higher-than-forecasted inflation.
hawkish	Expected external economic growth had picked up pace and expected interest rates in the euro area had risen. 
hawkish	The majority of the members agreed that the balance of risks was tilted towards the upside.
hawkish	 The prevailing view in the discussion was that the newly observed growth in nominal unit wage costs in industry was indicating wage-cost pressures.
hawkish	It was also said, however, that temporarily increased nominal unit wage costs can also be a sign that businesses are gearing up for a further strengthening of demand, and the opinion was expressed that faster-growing wages can be natural for a converging economy.
hawkish	In a debate on the newly published GDP figures it was said that the rapid economic growth was continuing, and the view was presented that a further increase in domestic demand growth could be expected.
hawkish	The opinion was expressed that rapid economic growth should not be a reason for tightening monetary policy.
hawkish	Another of the upside factors debated was the observed higher agricultural producer price inflation. 
hawkish	Given the upside balance of risks to inflation, the Board discussed the possibility of raising interest rates. 
hawkish	The appropriate response should therefore be to raise rates already at the present meeting.
hawkish	The existence of a positive output gap and a further gradual widening of that gap this year, along with expectations regarding external economic developments and the effect of fiscal policy, had led to the economic growth forecast being increased above 6% for 2007. 
hawkish	In 2007, therefore, the economy would grow at a faster pace than the expected rate of growth of potential output.
hawkish	The inflationary signals from the domestic and external economies had pushed the inflation forecast upwards compared to April.
hawkish	In the discussion of the starting points of the forecast, it was said that the economy was going through a phase of dynamic economic growth, which, unlike in the past, was being accompanied by an economic upswing abroad.
hawkish	It was said that information from the labour market was confirming the forecast of strong domestic demand growth, and the observed growth of the money supply was also mentioned as an upside factor.
hawkish	In this discussion, the opinion was expressed that stronger monetary policy responses would be appropriate primarily in the event of economic shocks. 
hawkish	At the same time it decided to increase the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 2.0% and 4.0% respectively.
hawkish	This would affect inflation primarily by increasing the contribution of growth in indirect taxes.
hawkish	After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the risks of the July forecast, which predicted a further rise in interest rates.
hawkish	Against this, however, the prevailing view was that the new labour market data confirmed the forecast assumptions of an upswing in wage growth and nominal unit wage cost growth.
hawkish	According to the situation report, the changes to VAT, the rise in excise duties and the changes to regulated prices would all be more inflationary than forecasted. 
hawkish	In a discussion about the fiscal policy changes, the opinion was expressed that the implementation of the tax reform might further spur corporate and private investment. 
hawkish	Regarding the influence of the potential slowdown abroad on the Czech economy, it was emphasised that unlike in the past the domestic growth was based to a large extent on domestic demand, so any negative external shock could be comfortably accommodated. 
hawkish	The economy would continue to go through a phase of buoyant economic growth driven by growth in household consumption and investment.
hawkish	It was said repeatedly that the combination of rising indirect tax rates, regulated rents, energy prices and food prices would affect headline inflation.
hawkish	At 4% in October, annual consumer price inflation had been 0.2 percentage points higher than predicted by the October forecast.
hawkish	This deviation had been due to higher-than-expected growth in food prices.
hawkish	At the same time, GDP growth figures for the second quarter had been revised upwards. 
hawkish	Some of the board members stressed the upside risks to inflation, pointing out that a further pick-up in inflation owing to the increases in VAT and regulated prices might affect hitherto well-anchored inflation expectations, which would result in stronger second-round impacts on inflation. 
hawkish	The starting conditions of the forecast assumed comparatively strong demand-pull inflation pressures from the real economy, stemming primarily from the positive output gap. 
hawkish	The new forecast had also taken into account the higher-than-expected rise in inflation in late 2007, which it assessed as a one-off shock linked mainly with external developments.
hawkish	Most of the newly available data on the domestic economy were assessed as representing upside risks to inflation
hawkish	The upside risks included the possibility of the current higher-than-expected inflation feeding through into inflation expectations and subsequently into inflation. 
hawkish	It was said during the discussion that it was not appropriate to play a waiting game with the response to the upside risks to inflation and that, at a time of increased uncertainty regarding external developments, monetary policy should be focused on domestic inflation factors, which were associated with less uncertainty. 
hawkish	The real economy was at the peak of the business cycle and its current effect was assessed as inflationary.
hawkish	One argument in favour of continued robust economic growth was the still high level of consumer confidence.
hawkish	On average, the Board inclined towards the view that the risks of the baseline scenario were broadly on the upside with regard to inflation, although some members assessed the risks as being balanced.
hawkish	In the subsequent debate about inflation expectations, it was said that a period of high inflation and of waiting for an appreciation to materialise can lead to volatility of inflation expectations.
hawkish	Despite slowing slightly in the second quarter of 2008, consumer price inflation had remained well above the inflation-target tolerance band. 
hawkish	Wage growth, which might be higher than forecasted, was identified as an upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	The comparatively high growth in the money supply, driven mainly by growth in currency in circulation, was also mentioned as a partial upside inflation factor.
hawkish	The opinion was expressed that some improvement had occurred since the autumn, when the markets had been frozen. 
hawkish	The opinion was also expressed that given low interest rates, demand for loans might rise significantly once the recession subsides, causing inflation to go up.
hawkish	A slower-than-expected wage decline in industry and construction was mentioned as a risk of higher inflation in the future. 
hawkish	The fairly strong consumption persistence of Czech households, which was slowing the decline in aggregate demand, was identified as a factor supporting moderate optimism. 
hawkish	Another factor suggesting a recovery of the global economy was quite high capacity utilisation in the area of commodities, whose prices might turn into a major inflationary factor again.
hawkish	It was said that year-on-year average nominal wage growth in the business sector was surprisingly high given the low economic activity. 
hawkish	The currently weaker exchange rate was identified as an upside risk to inflation by some of the board members.
hawkish	The deviation of inflation by 0.3 percentage points from the forecast had been caused by higher-than-expected growth in fuel prices and regulated prices.
hawkish	Net inflation was steadily rebounding from its previous low values. 
hawkish	The upside risks of the new forecast included potentially faster growth in commodity and food prices.
hawkish	It was said that this recovery might speed up the recovery in Czech exports and growth in European consumer prices and foreign interest rates relative to the new forecast. 
hawkish	The inflationary factors had included published data on higher household consumption and slightly faster wage growth, a higher outlook for food price inflation and a higher outlook for regulated price inflation due to an expected increase in electricity prices.
hawkish	However, it was also said that upside risks to inflation were emerging as a result of the continuing domestic and external economic recovery.
hawkish	It was said repeatedly that the current level of monetary policy rates was low and could present a risk in the longer term from the financial stability perspective. 
hawkish	Some agricultural commodity prices and import prices in some sectors were rising.
hawkish	Some of the board members expressed the opinion that the unexpectedly higher growth in household consumption could represent an upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	Rising world commodity prices and a weaker exchange rate might pose an upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	On the other hand, it was repeatedly said that rates should be increased because the cost-pull inflation pressures could be sustained and because demand-pull inflation pressures might arise as a result of a faster household consumption recovery and a faster export recovery than assumed by the forecast.
hawkish	It was said that a very slight rise in demand pressures generated by wage growth could be expected at the forecast horizon.
hawkish	With regard to the future path of interest rates, the risks were heading upwards.
hawkish	The opinion was expressed that the current evolution of the domestic economy was an upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	However, it was said in the discussion that domestic economic growth would be higher than forecasted, especially this year, and that other sectors besides the export-oriented manufacturing industry were recovering thanks to the higher external growth. 
hawkish	It was said several times that only the first signs of recovery were being observed and that these signs could be slightly stronger in the outturns of some indicators than had been forecasted.
hawkish	Both headline inflation and monetary-policy relevant inflation in 2012 were higher than in the baseline scenario of the previous forecast.
hawkish	The Board discussed the causes of the current higher inflation.
hawkish	However, mention was made in the discussion of the good condition of the German economy, which was benefiting from exports to non-European markets.
hawkish	The possibility of an increase in inflation expectations, a slightly weaker exchange rate of the koruna against the euro and higher commodity prices (especially oil prices) were identified as upside risks to inflation. 
hawkish	The main inflationary factors were depreciation of the koruna and higher-than-expected average wage growth, reflected in higher nominal unit labour costs.
hawkish	By contrast, inventories and government consumption had been more favourable than expected.
hawkish	It was said that rising employment amid a falling number of full-time equivalent employees meant an increasing number of part-timers, which was a favourable factor.
hawkish	This deviation from the prediction had been due mainly to significantly better than expected net exports on the back of recovering external demand. 
hawkish	As regards the assessment of domestic economy activity, the Board agreed that the figures from the domestic economy were signalling the start of an economic rebound.
hawkish	With regard to the economic recovery, mention was made of improving leading indicators such as growth in industrial orders and consumer confidence indicators, in respect of which households? persisting concerns about rising prices were emphasised.
hawkish	In line with the forecast, economic activity had recovered in 2013 Q4 and even recorded a noticeably stronger rate of growth. 
hawkish	In quarter-on-quarter terms, economic activity had risen for the third consecutive quarter.
hawkish	Economic growth would be fostered by accelerating external demand, the easing of the domestic monetary conditions via the exchange rate of the koruna and, to a lesser extent, also fiscal policy. 
hawkish	It was said that the recovery was confirmed by continuing retail sales growth.
hawkish	Economic growth would be fostered by accelerating external demand, the easing of the domestic monetary conditions via the weakened exchange rate and exceptionally low interest rates, and higher government investment. 
hawkish	There was a consensus that the observed recovery in domestic economic activity was robust and gaining pace.
hawkish	All components of demand except net exports had contributed to the year-on-year increase in GDP. 
hawkish	On the labour market, the number of vacancies was rising and the general unemployment rate was falling at a steady, albeit gradual, pace.
hawkish	Indicators from the real economy at the start of 2014 Q3 were pointing to continued buoyant economic growth. 
hawkish	It was said that the rapid rise in wages and the forecast for further wage growth were signalling the emergence of the first inflationary pressures in the domestic economy.
hawkish	The forecast expected inflation to continue rising gradually and exceed the 2% target at the start of 2016.
hawkish	Economic growth would be fostered by higher external demand, easy domestic monetary conditions and a recovery in government investment.
hawkish	The domestic economy was on a growth path.
hawkish	Employment and the share of unemployed persons were both doing better than forecasted.
hawkish	It was said that domestic demand had rebounded and was showing robust growth, as evidenced by developments in the individual components of GDP, the employment and unemployment figures, a halt in growth in the saving rate, increasing credit growth and positive core inflation. 
hawkish	This represented a positive signal that the domestic economy was generating inflation pressures. 
hawkish	A majority of the board members agreed that economic growth would continue to be robust over the forecast horizon.
hawkish	Higher adjusted inflation excluding fuels had also contributed to the pick-up in consumer price inflation, reflecting accelerating growth of the domestic economy, an improving labour market and a weaker exchange rate of the koruna against the dollar.
hawkish	According to the available data, the annual growth of the domestic economy had accelerated sharply to 4.2% in 2015 Q1, more than double the forecasted rate of growth.
hawkish	The board members also positively assessed the fact that the growth was being driven by practically all components of demand. 
hawkish	The opinion was expressed that the relatively strong growth in the number of job vacancies was signalling a structural imbalance between labour supply and demand, which in the future might give rise to a shortage of labour in some parts of the market and would foster higher wage growth. 
hawkish	The growing domestic economy was fostering higher inflation
hawkish	In a discussion about domestic economic developments, there was a consensus that the growth of the domestic economy could be regarded as robust and sustainable.
hawkish	There was a consensus that economic growth was sustainable.
hawkish	It was also said that industry was facing increasing problems with staff shortages and that the wage cost-to-output ratio was rising.
hawkish	It was mentioned several times that fiscal policy might be more relaxed in future years than assumed by the forecast and that this would imply an increase in domestic demand pressures.
hawkish	The slightly positive inflation had been due to the return of administered prices to annual growth and to still markedly positive adjusted inflation excluding fuels. 
hawkish	According to the forecast, inflation would start rising in the near future, driven by increasing domestic economic activity and wages. 
hawkish	According to the new forecast, sustainable fulfilment of the target, which is a condition for a return to conventional monetary policy, would thus occur in mid-2017. 
hawkish	It was said repeatedly that industrial production in the Czech Republic and in its main trading partner countries was rising, as were new orders and loans to non-financial corporations.
hawkish	It was said that the positive condition of the economy was also indicated by better-than-expected performance of the revenue side of the state budget.
hawkish	 Renewed growth in investment would foster higher economic growth.
hawkish	The growing economic activity would be reflected in an increase in wage growth.
hawkish	This had been due to a stronger recovery in adjusted inflation excluding fuels, caused mainly by faster growth in prices of non-tradable goods.
hawkish	A growing contribution of prices in food services, driven, among other things, by the introduction of electronic sales registration, had been significant, as had faster growth in imputed rent due to rising prices of new properties, whose weight in the consumer price index had increased since the start of 2017.
hawkish	Continued strong growth in labour demand had led to an upswing in employment growth and a further fall in the unemployment rate, neither of which the forecast had expected. 
hawkish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board assessed the risks to the current inflation forecast for the rest of this year as being inflationary.
hawkish	Mention was also made of risks stemming from developments in the euro area, where a relatively strong economic recovery ? confirmed by leading indicators ? was expected.
hawkish	Leading and coincidence indicators from the domestic economy remained favourable, especially as regards industrial production, retail sales and lending to the private sector.
hawkish	Economic sentiment was favourable as well.
hawkish	Inflation had risen further in 2017 Q1, entering the upper half of the tolerance band around the CNB?s target. 
hawkish	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board assessed the risks to the new inflation forecast at the monetary policy horizon as being slightly inflationary.
hawkish	It was said that both the current data and the forecast were indicating that inflation was sustainable with respect to future fulfilment of the target thanks in part to favourable labour market developments in the form of rising employment and upward pressure on wages.
hawkish	 Nonetheless, GDP growth, which had jumped to 3% in year-on-year terms, had been higher than forecasted. 
hawkish	On the one hand, mention was made of the positive evolution of economic activity in the euro area, whose rate of growth had been rising in recent quarters.
hawkish	The board members also agreed that the future increase in interest rates would help mitigate the risks associated with growth in mortgage loans, to which the CNB had already reacted primarily with macroprudential instruments.
hawkish	Robust growth in household consumption was continuing, in conditions of accelerating wage and employment growth and persisting consumer optimism.
hawkish	The appreciation of the koruna had led to a tightening of the exchange rate component of the monetary conditions equivalent to an interest rate increase of 3/4 to 1 percentage point, but on the basis of the forecast the interest rate component of the monetary conditions could also be tightened somewhat.
hawkish	It was said several times that financial stability-related macroprudential considerations also spoke in favour of raising rates.
hawkish	The size and timing of the interest rate increase was discussed. 
hawkish	 A majority of the board members felt that there was no need to fear such a reaction, as most of the market was expecting a rate hike.
hawkish	The Czech economy was slightly above its potential output level.
hawkish	At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to increase the two-week repo rate.
hawkish	The Lombard rate was increased.
hawkish	Annual GDP growth had accelerated significantly further to 4.7% in 2017 Q2 and was distinctly above the forecast. 
hawkish	The increase in economic activity had been fostered not only by household consumption, reflecting buoyant growth in wages and employment, but also by a marked recovery in investment activity and by foreign trade, driven by rising external demand.
hawkish	It was also said that the rapid wage growth constituted a positive contribution to financial stability, because it was increasing households? ability to repay their loans. The high GDP growth rate was likewise debated.
hawkish	Attention was also focused on the high growth in fixed investment, which had come as the biggest surprise compared with the forecast.
hawkish	It was said repeatedly that the higher wage growth, disposable income and consumption were generating appropriate inflation pressures.
hawkish	It was said several times that if domestic inflationary pressures were higher than forecasted, it would be appropriate to increase the two-week repo rate by more than the standard step of 0.25 percentage point.
hawkish	It was therefore more appropriate to raise interest rates gradually from the financial stability point of view as well.
hawkish	There was also discussion of the observed growth in investment activity, especially in the machinery and equipment item, which is traditionally dominated by private investment.
hawkish	Going forward, this could be reflected in higher productivity and competitiveness.
hawkish	The Czech economy was above its potential output level amid accelerating economic growth.
hawkish	Growth in economic activity was also being significantly aided by an increase in investment in the private sector. 
hawkish	The overall inflation pressures remained strong, mainly reflecting accelerating wage growth amid robust growth of the domestic economy.
hawkish	The Board agreed that the situation as regards inflation, the labour market, the phase of the business cycle and other macroeconomic parameters fully justified raising interest rates.
hawkish	As regards domestic price developments, there was a consensus that the economy was facing inflation pressures stemming from the positive output gap and the tight labour market.
hawkish	This was because the economy had been operating above its potential output level for some time and would continue to do so according to the outlook.
hawkish	The exchange rate of the koruna, which was weaker than forecasted, was repeatedly mentioned as the most significant inflationary factor.
hawkish	The growth in household consumption was generating stable inflation pressures.
hawkish	The overall fundamental inflation pressures remained strong and would rise even further in the short run, owing mainly to buoyant wage growth. 
hawkish	The prevailing view among the board members was that given the environment of solid economic growth, rapid wage growth, a weaker koruna and inflation in the upper half of the tolerance band, it was appropriate to tighten monetary policy further via interest rates. 
hawkish	Part of the discussion was devoted to the overheating of the domestic economy. 
hawkish	However, the Czech economy was still operating above its potential, while the positive output gap was gradually closing.
hawkish	The Board said that the risk of deflation and the related likelihood of using unconventional monetary policy instruments had decreased and that the next monetary policy action would most likely be an interest rate hike.
hawkish	Economic activity might hence be in better shape in reality than indicated by the standard macroeconomic data.
hawkish	The Board also discussed the domestic inflation forecast, which saw inflation rising towards the upper boundary of the tolerance band in the next few quarters.
hawkish	In the discussion about interest rates, a majority of the board members agreed that the monetary policy tightening decision had moved much closer since the last meeting.
hawkish	In his opinion, this was leading many people to invest in property in fear of the expected high inflation. 
hawkish	According to some indicators, inflation expectations had started to creep up. 
hawkish	Inflation would rise well above the upper boundary of the tolerance band around the 2% target in the quarters ahead. 
hawkish	Greater or lengthier overloading of global supply chains, which could result in even stronger growth in producer prices, was an inflationary risk to the forecast.
hawkish	Vojtech Benda said that the economy had moved appreciably in the inflationary direction since the last meeting.
hawkish	According to Tom? Nidetzk? and Tom? Holub, the labour market was also generating robust inflation pressures.
hawkish	A majority of the board members assessed the risks and uncertainties of the summer forecast as being markedly inflationary and hence requiring a faster rise in interest rates compared with the current forecast.
hawkish	Real interest rates would remain significantly negative even so.
hawkish	This was in response to the current exceptionally strong inflation pressures in the domestic and foreign economies.
hawkish	There was a consensus that global cost pressures were a significant source of the domestic price growth. 
hawkish	In addition to high prices of commodities and energy, these pressures reflected persisting problems in global production chains. 
hawkish	According to a majority of the board members, there was a significant risk of them becoming unanchored from the inflation target in the present situation. 
hawkish	The labour market was regarded as one of the major sources of inflation pressures. 
hawkish	Developments in the euro area were acting in the inflationary direction via the expected path of one-year Euribor rates.
neutral	The larger banks were now tending to lend more, but the credit volumes issued via smaller banks were still falling.
neutral	At the end of its extraordinary meeting, the Board decided to end the CNB?s exchange rate commitment. 
neutral	The turmoil on global financial markets and the approval of the fiscal reform were identified as events raising the uncertainty of the decision-making process above its usual level.
neutral	The opinion was expressed that the change in the shape of the yield curve might also reflect a revision of the economic growth outlook.
neutral	Some of the board members emphasised the fact that the rapid appreciation of the koruna in July had returned with renewed vigour in November.
neutral	Other potential impact channels on the Czech economy were also mentioned in the discussion of the considerable uncertainty surrounding the future course of the US economy and the Czech Republic?s main trading partner economies. 
neutral	The Board agreed that the external economy was a source of even greater uncertainty than the domestic economy.
neutral	The board members agreed that there were many mutually conflicting tendencies in both the domestic and external economy and that this implied an unusually high degree of uncertainty for the decision-making process.
neutral	The outlook for external developments was uncertain owing to the deepening global financial market crisis.
neutral	The Board agreed that monetary policy decision-making was encumbered with greater uncertainty owing to the debt problems in certain countries.
neutral	It was said repeatedly that uncertainty had increased sharply in several areas in recent weeks.
neutral	On the other hand, uncertainties regarding US trade policy, Brexit and the banking sector situation in some euro area countries were mentioned.
neutral	They were being balanced by the strengthening exchange rate and continued subdued growth in foreign prices.
neutral	The board members agreed that the Chinese coronavirus epidemic was a completely new external uncertainty, but their views of this uncertainty differed in intensity.
neutral	Jir Rusnok said that the persisting external uncertainties (deglobalisation, trade wars, Brexit and the shift towards green energy), which had escalated further with the ongoing pandemic, had now been joined by domestic uncertainties. 
neutral	The Board discussed the January situation report containing the new forecast for inflation and other macroeconomic indicators.
neutral	Economic growth was forecasted at approximately 5.3% in 2007 and 4.8% in 2008
neutral	The overall inflation pressures from the real economy were thus now described in a more structured way by means of the real marginal cost gap, consisting of the real wage gap and a redefined output gap.
neutral	After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the risks and uncertainties associated with the new forecast.
neutral	The Board agreed that there were risks on both the upside and downside.
neutral	The opinion was expressed that it should not, as the asset price growth may be just a consequence of rapidly rising wealth coupled with limited investment opportunities.
neutral	After discussing the situation report, the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 2.50%.
neutral	The meeting began with a presentation of the February situation report summarising the newly available economic data and the associated risks of the January forecast.
neutral	The majority of the board members agreed on the overall assessment of the January forecast risks as being balanced. 
neutral	Economic growth had been in line with the forecast.
neutral	After the presentation, the Board went on to discuss the newly available information and the risks of the January forecast.
neutral	The Board agreed that the forecast risks were balanced and there were no strong arguments for either a rise or a cut in interest rates.
neutral	The Board then turned to a discussion of upside and downside risks to inflation.
neutral	Opinions were also expressed that increases in indirect taxes would not have to affect consumer prices to the full extent. 
neutral	In this context, the board members drew attention to the experience of other countries, for example Germany, as well as the past experience of the Czech Republic with incomplete pass-through of cost shocks into inflation. 
neutral	The meeting opened with a presentation of the April situation report and the new forecast for inflation and economic developments.
neutral	Wages had ceased to be anti-inflationary.
neutral	The monetary conditions were broadly neutral overall.
neutral	After the presentation of the April situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast.
neutral	However, it was also said repeatedly that the economic developments in 2007 Q1, which had seen atypical weather conditions, did not necessarily have sufficient information content to distinguish between short-term fluctuations and trends, hence it was too early to talk of a build-up of inflationary factors.
neutral	The Board also discussed the link between household consumption and other economic variables.
neutral	The Board discussed the May situation report assessing the new data on the economy and the risks associated with the fulfilment of the April macroeconomic forecast.
neutral	The situation report did not identify any major downside risks to inflation.
neutral	After discussing the situation report, the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the CNB two-week repo rate unchanged at 2.75%. 
neutral	The presentation of the new macroeconomic forecast was followed by a discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with the forecast.
neutral	It was said that in an economy where inflation had long been close to the inflation target, inflation expectations were well anchored. 
neutral	The members agreed that the aforementioned turbulence in global financial markets was not yet significant for the Czech economy and the monetary policy settings. 
neutral	Some of the members argued, however, that there might be structural impacts linked with redistributions between the household and corporate sectors and between individual household income groups.
neutral	The prevailing view, however, was that information going beyond the assumptions of the July forecast had also emerged since the forecast was created.
neutral	The Board focused in detail on the current inflation situation.
neutral	At the close of the meeting, the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 3.25%.
neutral	Overall, however, the current inflation pressures from the domestic real economy were assessed as moderate.
neutral	The current setting of the monetary conditions was assessed as roughly neutral.
neutral	The October situation report assessed the risks to the new forecast as being balanced.
neutral	The G3 model is much more detailed, allowing for a more realistic description of the impacts of various economic shocks.
neutral	It was said repeatedly that in an economy where inflation had long been close to, or below, the inflation target, inflation expectations were well anchored.
neutral	Inflation, which was being driven by one-off price deregulations and changes to tax rates, should therefore have very limited impacts on inflation expectations.
neutral	After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new distribution of the risks relating to the October forecast and its implications for monetary policy.
neutral	Given their substantial share in the current rise in inflation, food prices were an important subject of debate.
neutral	The real monetary conditions index was slightly easy in its interest rate component and tight in its exchange rate component. 
neutral	The Board agreed that the uncertainties associated with monetary policy decision-making were this time greater than usual, while the risks were heading in both directions.
neutral	The Board agreed that monetary policy decision-making was difficult, because both upside and downside risks to inflation in relation to the February forecast could be identified.
neutral	At the monetary policy horizon, i.e. in the first three quarters of 2009, headline inflation was expected to be in the lower half of the inflation-target tolerance band.
neutral	It was said repeatedly that the inflation pressures in the wage area were not particularly significant at present.
neutral	After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the risks.
neutral	The current high inflation, however, was still assessed as being a transitory phenomenon.
neutral	At the forecast horizon inflation would be falling towards the inflation target after the unwinding of the effect of the tax and price shocks that occurred in late 2007 and early 2008, thanks to the anti-inflationary effect of the current appreciation of the koruna and a gradual decline in inflation pressures from the domestic economy.
neutral	In connection with expected future inflation developments it was said that inflation would gradually return to the current inflation target of 3%.
neutral	The opinion was expressed that rates should remain unchanged in view of the new inflation target.
neutral	It was also said that it was unclear whether wages would act in the inflationary or anti-inflationary direction.
neutral	In late 2009 and early 2010, inflation would then be at the 2% inflation target valid from 2010.
neutral	The opinion was expressed in the discussion that a sharper reduction in monetary policy rates was not necessarily the optimal response, as it would not necessarily influence effectively the situation in the interbank market and might also send out the wrong signal regarding the soundness of the Czech financial sector and the prospects for the domestic economy.
neutral	The Board discussed the current financial market situation in depth. 
neutral	Conversely, the arguments for a more cautious approach included concerns of triggering a precipitous weakening of the exchange rate as a possible consequence of a too-large change in domestic rates.
neutral	After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. 
neutral	The Board then discussed lending activity.
neutral	The Board discussed the effectiveness of transmission from monetary policy rates to the real economy.
neutral	In the context of the debate of monetary policy transmission mechanisms, it was said that a change in monetary policy rates might also act via the exchange rate channel and that the exchange rate affects the economy more quickly than interest rates.
neutral	Some of the board members argued that this uncertainty was acting in both directions. 
neutral	The next subject of debate was the financial condition of corporations.
neutral	The Board discussed in depth the current situation in financial intermediation.
neutral	In this context, the pass-through from monetary policy rates to market rates was discussed.
neutral	The Board agreed that the risks to the inflation forecast were balanced.
neutral	In the debate about inflation and its components, it was said that inflation was developing in line with the forecast. 
neutral	The monetary policy priority was to hit the inflation target at the forecast horizon, and that was not currently in any danger. 
neutral	It was said in the discussion that the lower-than-forecasted growth in food prices posed no significant downside risk to inflation, because food prices were low and the transmission of agricultural producer prices to food prices was not immediate.
neutral	It was said that monetary policy should not react to short-term fluctuations in food and oil prices. 
neutral	Financial stability was not an issue for the Czech economy, hence there was no need to bring interest rates down to zero.
neutral	Thereafter, it would converge slowly from low positive values towards the inflation target, which it would reach at the end of 2010.
neutral	The Board discussed the risks of the forecast.
neutral	Voted in favour of this decision.
neutral	The fiscal measures currently under debate and their implications for inflation and monetary policy were also discussed.
neutral	It was said in the discussion that monetary policy should take into account not only the attainment of the inflation target in consumer prices, but also long-term financial stability.
neutral	Doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether an interest rate reduction would, in the present situation, have the desired effect on lending, the exchange rate and thus inflation at the monetary policy transmission horizon.
neutral	The exchange rate of the koruna would be broadly stable over the forecast horizon. 
neutral	The prevailing view was that monetary policy rates had fallen to a sufficiently low level to allow the economy to cope with the fall in aggregate demand.
neutral	Leaving monetary policy rates unchanged should be enough to enable monetary-policy relevant inflation to return into the lower half of the tolerance band around the inflation target at the forecast horizon.
neutral	In support of maintaining the current level of monetary policy rates, it was repeatedly argued that it was risky to make monetary policy changes in an environment of major uncertainty, which is heading in both directions.
neutral	In arguing to leave interest rates unchanged, some of the board members mentioned their uncertainty regarding the equilibrium paths specified in the model.
neutral	For some of the board members, the main argument for leaving interest rates unchanged was the forecast assumption of rising interest rates over the next two to three quarters and their unwillingness to make such aggressive monetary policy changes in the opposite direction. 
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that it was appropriate to leave interest rates unchanged.
neutral	The opinion was expressed that the economic crisis had not affected the long-run rate of growth of potential output. 
neutral	The Board discussed the outlook for net exports in relation to the recovery in external economic activity.
neutral	The spread between interbank market interest rates and the monetary policy rate was discussed.
neutral	The historical statistical indicators may have been deflected by the extreme growth shocks and might be less reliable than under normal circumstances. 
neutral	Another major uncertainty also discussed by the Board was the evolution of wages and related nominal unit wage costs.
neutral	Overall, the Board agreed that wage growth seemed to be a two-sided risk.
neutral	The Board agreed that the recovery in the Czech Republic would be driven primarily by exports.
neutral	The Board also spent quite some time discussing the effectiveness of monetary policy during the crisis. 
neutral	Monetary-policy relevant inflation would approach the target from below.
neutral	The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being broadly balanced. 
neutral	According to the new forecast, inflation would be close to the inflation target at the monetary policy horizon and the economic recovery would be modest.
neutral	It was said repeatedly that according to the new forecast both headline inflation and monetary-policy relevant inflation would be close to the inflation target and that such a stable outlook was quite a rare occurrence.
neutral	The board members agreed that the current interest rate settings were therefore appropriate.
neutral	The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being balanced.
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing opinion was that the risks of the inflation forecast were balanced and that the appropriate response was to leave rates at the current level.
neutral	External growth was returning, but there was a risk of renewed slowdown. 
neutral	Monetary-policy relevant inflation, i.e. inflation adjusted for the first-round effects of changes to indirect taxes, would keep rising over the forecast horizon and would converge to the inflation target in 2011 H1.
neutral	The prevailing view in the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report was that the current inflation pressures were negligible, inflation expectations were well anchored and the risks of the inflation forecast were balanced.
neutral	The majority of the board members agreed that in this situation the appropriate monetary policy reaction was to leave monetary policy rates at their existing level.
neutral	According to this forecast, the domestic economy would continue to be characterised by modest recovery and stable inflation close to the 2% target.
neutral	According to the February forecast, both headline inflation and monetary-policy relevant inflation would be close to the inflation target at the monetary policy horizon.
neutral	The prevailing opinion among the board members was that the current situation ? characterised by lower-than-forecasted GDP, inflation and wages and higher-than-forecasted unemployment ? was not signalling the existence of any demand-pull inflation pressures from the domestic economy.
neutral	However, the prevailing opinion was that inflation expectations were well anchored and that the rise in headline inflation due to the VAT changes would be only temporary, as evidenced by historical experience.
neutral	It was said that commodity prices currently did not represent a major upside risk to inflation and forward contracts suggested that they would not rise any further.
neutral	It was repeatedly said that owing to weak domestic demand, the observed cost pressures represented by the commodity price growth were not currently an inflation risk. 
neutral	The majority of the board members regarded the economic situation in Germany as stable and consistent with the forecast. 
neutral	Higher inflation pressures stemming from the external environment, most notably higher commodity price inflation, were being offset by a sharper decline in domestic inflation pressures.
neutral	A majority of the board members agreed that inflation expectations were well anchored and that the rise in headline inflation due to the potential VAT change would be only temporary, as evidenced by previous experience.
neutral	With regard to the future path of interest rates, the risks were balanced. 
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing opinion was that the risks to monetary-policy relevant inflation were balanced.
neutral	A majority of the board members did not regard the evolution of the labour market as a risk for inflation.
neutral	The initial inflationary pressures stemming from the domestic economy were not significant, owing to weak domestic demand.
neutral	According to the new forecast, headline inflation would be just above 3% in 2012 owing to a VAT increase, but would return to the target at the start of 2013.
neutral	Some of the board members expressed the view that the economic recovery was unbalanced not only abroad, but also in the domestic economy, and that it was being driven predominantly by exporters.
neutral	Domestic economic developments were broadly in line with the forecast and the deviations from the forecast were so far small and in both directions.
neutral	It was added that inflation expectations were firmly anchored in the long run. 
neutral	The opinion was expressed that the risk to lending to the domestic economy posed by the deleveraging in the euro area and the fulfilment of the new regulatory requirements by European banks was not yet clear.
neutral	The opinion was expressed several times that owing to the external situation there were risks and uncertainties that were difficult to quantify. 
neutral	Monetary-policy relevant inflation was in the upper half of the tolerance band around the inflation target.
neutral	In 2013 the economic was expected to grow by just under 2% in connection with a recovery in external demand.
neutral	The Board discussed the structure of inflation and future scenarios for inflation
neutral	The Board then discussed economic growth.
neutral	According to the new forecast, headline inflation would be close to the CNB?s 2% target this year despite substantial impacts of tax changes, and would fall slightly below the target after these impacts fade away. 
neutral	Monetary-policy relevant inflation would be in the lower half of the tolerance band around the target until the end of 2014
neutral	Overall, the effect of these external factors on the domestic economy was approximately neutral, whereas in the previous forecast it had been slightly anti-inflationary.
neutral	The exchange rate of the koruna and interest rates were in line with the forecast.
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, it was said repeatedly that the data that had been published since the last situation report did not represent significant deviations from the forecast from the perspective of inflation pressures.
neutral	However, the opinion was also expressed that the forecast reflected all the available information and that no additional downside risks were visible.
neutral	It was said several times that the 2% inflation target was a significant anchor of inflation expectations and that a long-term undershooting of the target should not be tolerated.
neutral	In the discussion of the growth outlook for the domestic economy, it was said repeatedly that the government?s declared intention to ease its fiscal consolidation drive was relevant information.
neutral	It was said several times that there was no apparent risk of deflation despite the accumulation of anti-inflationary factors, and that inflation expectations were anchored, or not falling. 
neutral	There was a consensus that the data coming in from the domestic economy were not clear-cut. 
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board clearly agreed that the economy was moving essentially in line with the forecast from the fifth situation report. 
neutral	It was also said that the monetary developments were also signalling no risks of deflation.
neutral	The Board agreed that the risk mentioned in the previous situation report regarding a later external economic recovery was not currently materialising. 
neutral	The Bank Board went on to discuss the domestic factors underlying inflation and agreed that the domestic economy was not inflationary in its effect.
neutral	Monetary-policy relevant inflation would return towards the target at the end of this year and stay very close to the target next year.
neutral	In the context of the long period of low interest rates, the value of the equilibrium real interest rate for the Czech economy was also discussed.
neutral	The weakened exchange rate was passing through to inflation in line with the forecast. 
neutral	The new forecast was based on an assumption of flat market interest rates at their current very low level and the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument until 2015 Q3.
neutral	The subsequent return to conventional monetary policy would not imply appreciation of the exchange rate to the level recorded before the intervention regime started. 
neutral	It was said that while the domestic economic situation was not currently subject to major uncertainties, the situation abroad was very unbalanced. 
neutral	The Board spent quite some time discussing the uncertainties and risks associated with developments abroad.
neutral	A majority of the board members stated that the adoption of the exchange rate commitment had served its purpose.
neutral	Monetary policy had thus helped inflation to step back from the edge of deflation, the threat of which, in the light of developments abroad, had been even greater than suggested by the analyses available a year ago. 
neutral	In quarter-on-quarter terms, economic activity had increased in line with the forecast.
neutral	It was said in the discussion that if the standard interest rate instrument were available, its use would lead to a faster return of inflation to the 2% inflation target.
neutral	The Board discussed in detail developments on the labour market and the reasons why the favourable tendencies in employment and unemployment were not yet being reflected in faster wage growth. 
neutral	The new forecast was based on an assumption that market interest rates would be flat at their current very low level and the exchange rate would be used as a monetary policy instrument until the end of 2016, i.e. over the entire forecast horizon.
neutral	It was said several times that the situation was little changed from the previous situation report from the economic perspective.
neutral	It was repeatedly noted that even in the light of the newly available data, the assumption that inflation would merely be approaching the target from below at the monetary policy horizon remained in place.
neutral	Adjusted inflation excluding fuels had stayed positive and stable despite fade-out of the direct effect of the weakened exchange rate of the koruna against the euro and still subdued inflation abroad.
neutral	It was also said several times that it was good idea to wait for more data to confirm positive tendencies in the economy.
neutral	The Board discussed whether it was necessary to further ease the monetary conditions and also discussed a possible way of doing so.
neutral	It was said several times that in the current situation it was appropriate to wait and see whether inflationary tendencies materialised in the domestic economy.
neutral	The opinion was repeatedly expressed that in the present regime, domestic monetary policy was being significantly affected by the ECB?s unconventional monetary policy and that any exit from the CNB?s exchange rate commitment before the ECB?s quantitative easing was discontinued could be very complicated.
neutral	In connection with the extension of the exchange rate commitment, the board members discussed the necessary exit conditions.
neutral	The evolution of oil prices was a significant source of uncertainty in both directions.
neutral	In line with the new forecast, the Board also stated that the Czech National Bank would not discontinue the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument before 2017. 
neutral	At the same time, the Board stated that any exchange rate appreciation following the discontinuation of the exchange rate commitment would be dampened, among other things, by hedging of exchange rate risk by exporters during the existence of the commitment, by the closing of koruna positions by financial investors, and by possible CNB interventions to mitigate exchange rate volatility.
neutral	The prevailing view was that negative rates were not an appropriate tool for easing monetary conditions and hence for influencing inflation directly at the monetary policy horizon.
neutral	The Board also discussed the possibility of introducing negative interest rates. 
neutral	This was one of the factors helping inflation to return to the target in the first half of next year in the forecast.
neutral	As expected, annual growth in the Czech economy had slowed to 3% in 2016 Q1.
neutral	It was said repeatedly that the new information contained no major surprises and the forecast had largely materialised.
neutral	The Board also discussed the risks and uncertainties arising from developments abroad. 
neutral	The board members agreed that the referendum result primarily implied an increase in uncertainty and that the main economic impacts associated with the probable Brexit lay beyond the monetary policy horizon, so they were not particularly relevant to current decision-making.
neutral	There was a consensus that the appropriate response was to leave monetary policy rates unchanged at technical zero.
neutral	The Board stated again that the CNB would not discontinue the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument before 2017. 
neutral	The Board discussed domestic economic developments and their effect on inflation.
neutral	It was said that core inflation was still developing favourably, moving at the boundary of the tolerance band around the target.
neutral	The Board discussed the existing commitment that the CNB would not discontinue the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument before the start of 2017.
neutral	The board members agreed that macroeconomic developments in the last quarter had essentially confirmed the predictions of the previous forecast, as the external inflation pressures and the decline in commodity prices were both gradually fading.
neutral	It was said several times that it would be wrong to overestimate the effect of volatile items on the inflation outlook.
neutral	Nonetheless, a majority of the board members agreed that the slowdown in industrial production growth and the drop in exports were temporary.
neutral	In 2016 Q4, both headline and monetary policy-relevant inflation had risen sharply and returned to the tolerance band around the CNB?s target. 
neutral	In December, headline inflation had hit the 2% target following four years of exceptionally low values. 
neutral	The forecast assumed that market interest rates would be flat at their current very low level and the exchange rate would be used as a monetary policy instrument until mid-2017.
neutral	In connection with the timing of the exit, the board members discussed the robustness of the current inflation trend.
neutral	A key question was whether the factors of the currently elevated inflation would persist at the monetary policy horizon.
neutral	In this regard, the opinion was expressed that a large part of the deviation of inflation from the forecast was due to one-off factors that would fade away over one year.
neutral	As for the assessment of the domestic economic situation, a majority of the board members did not see any major risks, although GDP growth had been slightly weaker than forecasted at the end of last year. 
neutral	It was also repeatedly said that the economy was in a situation of full employment and was close to its potential output level.
neutral	The regular board meeting was devoted exceptionally to, among other things, a discussion of monetary policy issues.
neutral	At the start of the meeting, the Board was informed about the latest macroeconomic indicators.
neutral	The February 2017 foreign trade figures had been in line with the current CNB forecast.
neutral	Currently, by contrast, inflation had reached roughly the level that the CNB had considered optimal when the exchange rate had been introduced.
neutral	The CNB stood ready to use its instruments to mitigate potential excessive exchange rate fluctuations if needed.
neutral	Despite having slowed last year, the Czech economy remained close to its potential output level.
neutral	The exit from the exchange rate commitment at the start of April represented a shift of monetary policy towards a neutral stance.
neutral	The board members also discussed domestic and foreign political risks. 
neutral	There was a consensus at the meeting that the forecast contained in the third situation report was being fulfilled very well. 
neutral	It was also discussed whether the observed GDP growth figures, and above all the private consumption data, were low given the labour market developments, sentiment in the economy, residential housing market developments and growth in tax receipts. 
neutral	Another hypothesis mentioned was the possibility of a decrease in the sensitivity of inflation to real variables (a flattening of the Phillips curve), not only in the Czech economy, but on the global scale. 
neutral	The annual headline inflation rate had been 2.5% in August, the same as in the previous month.
neutral	Core inflation had gone up slightly again to 2.7%, in line with the forecast.
neutral	Domestic inflation would stay above the 2% target for most of 2018, though within the tolerance band. 
neutral	The opinion was expressed that a sharp increase in interest rates could be counterproductive from the financial stability perspective by putting an excessive load on indebted entities. 
neutral	In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, a majority of the board members assessed the risks to the current forecast as being balanced and insignificant. 
neutral	Thus, the upside risks identified at the November monetary policy meeting had not materialised so far. 
neutral	It had thus remained in the upper half of the tolerance band around the CNB?s target.
neutral	At the same time, it stated that there were two bidirectional uncertainties of the forecast. 
neutral	The rate of growth of the Czech economy had stayed at 2.4% in Q3.
neutral	In the context of the domestic and foreign risks discussed above, the prevailing opinion among the board members was that the central bank should be forward-looking and prudent.
neutral	Overall, however, the inflation pressures were no longer increasing.
neutral	It was said repeatedly during the meeting that the new forecast provided a credible and consistent story. 
neutral	The Board devoted part of its discussion to the question of credibility and the question of the interpretation of fulfilment of the 2% inflation target.
neutral	In 2019 Q2, GDP growth had continued at a roughly unchanged pace, in line with the forecast. 
neutral	The overall message of the new labour market and economic activity data was broadly neutral with respect to the current forecast.
neutral	A majority of the board members noted the complexity of the situation and weighed between keeping rates unchanged and increasing them. 
neutral	A majority of the board members assessed the risks to the forecast as being significant but not tilted in either direction overall.
neutral	There was a consensus that there was no need to change monetary policy.
neutral	Old?ich D?dek emphasised that the Czech Republic was not visibly out of line with the rest of the EU in terms of HICP inflation, so there did not seem to be anything specific in domestic inflation requiring a firm monetary policy response.
dovish	Several other members noted that not only supply factors, but also demand factors could explain the recent slowdown in economic growth, which, in turn, could dampen the disinflationary effects of lower growth.
dovish	Most major emerging market economies were decelerating.
dovish	The downward effect on inflation of the decline in domestic demand, which Bank staff assumed with a considerable degree of caution due to a lack of past empirical data, might actually be stronger than in the inflation projection.
dovish	Net wage growth was significantly slower than gross wage growth, which, in turn, was expected to dampen domestic demand. 
dovish	Falling demand was likely to prevent an increase in inflation expectations. 
dovish	On one argument, the current monetary conditions acted to slow output growth over the short term, which might have a stronger-than-expected disinflationary impact. 
dovish	Other members proposed that it should be cut by 25 basis points. 
dovish	One of the members, however, argued that, due to the reduction of the required premium, the time had come for an immediate 25 basis-point cut.
dovish	The rate of wage growth was likely to slow, because of the slowdown in economic activity.
dovish	And with the expected deterioration in economic conditions and the associated slackening in demand, downward effects on inflation could be intensifying.
dovish	The risk of a permanent increase in inflation expectations decreased considerably. 
dovish	Expected developments in core inflation suggested that there might be a transition to a lower inflation environment over the forecast period.
dovish	Another argument for cutting the interest rate was that the developments in the prices of market services had been in line with the trends observed in earlier years, and there were no visible signs of inflationary pressure.
dovish	In addition, several members also mentioned that, according to the labour force survey, adjustment through lay-offs in the market services sector was stronger than expected, thus the increase in productivity could be higher, while the increase in unit labour costs could be lower than presumed earlier.
dovish	This projects a decline in cost-side inflationary pressure.
dovish	Overall, most Monetary Council members shared the view that the favourable developments in inflation, labour market developments indicating decreasing risks of inflation and the decline in the risk premium allow a cautious interest rate cut.
dovish	Based on the votes cast, the Monetary Council decided to cut the central bank base rate by 25 basis points to 7.75%. 
dovish	Following a discussion of the macroeconomic and financial market developments, proposals were submitted to maintain the base rate or to reduce it by 25 basis points.
dovish	Members were unanimous in their views about the disinflationary effects of the slowdown in demand caused by the stronger-than-expected decline in economic growth.
dovish	Second, they noted that August?s was the second consecutive Report which contained a lower inflation projection than the target on the horizon relevant for monetary policy.
dovish	As was the case in earlier months, the majority of members thought it was likely that, after the unwinding of the supply shocks hitting Hungary, inflation would revert to levels consistent with price stability.
dovish	One member thought that the slowdown in economic growth left firms with less room to raise prices, which could act to reduce the rate of wage growth.
dovish	The majority of members preferring a rate cut emphasised that the international investment climate had been benign over recent weeks, risk premia on forint assets had fallen back to their levels in May-June and, as implied by the yield curve, market participants expected the Bank to reduce rates more rapidly over the next two years.
dovish	Successful disinflation also required that the wage agreements for 2008 be aligned with the expected decline in inflation. 
dovish	The expansion of domestic demand and companies? efforts to restore profitability were expected to facilitate the future slowdown in the rate of wage growth. 
dovish	Based on Q3 data, the slowdown in economic growth seemed to be slightly stronger than expected, and the recovery was likely to be more modest than previously thought, due to the prospective slowdown in external economic activity.
dovish	Several other members, however, were of the view that, based on the latest data, labour market conditions had eased further and the fall in corporate profitability would be able to effectively control the outcome of wage negotiations.
dovish	Several Council members thought that, due to a deterioration in economic prospects, the risks around the inflation projection had become more evenly balanced over recently.
dovish	Members were in agreement that, with the worsening of problems in the US mortgage market, there had been a significant deterioration in the international investment environment and a considerable increase in financial market uncertainty.
dovish	Several members pointed out that sentiment towards Hungary had deteriorated, which contributed to the rise in the risk premium for holding forint denominated assets.
dovish	Several members noted that, according to the evidence of third-quarter data, the slowdown in economic growth had been slightly stronger than expected and that the future outlook for the economy had deteriorated somewhat, due to the worsening in external business conditions.
dovish	In this respect, some members noted that if the risks associated with the short-term path of inflation diminished, then monetary policy should pay more attention in the future to risks of a potentially sharp slowdown in the economy.
dovish	The overwhelming majority of members agreed that the Council would have scope for reducing interest rates further if future economic conditions reflected a reduction in the risk of higher inflation transmitted through expectations and an improvement in international investor sentiment towards the Hungarian economy.
dovish	Based on employment data, labour market conditions had eased.
dovish	Members judged that domestic economic developments were worse than thought previously, and that the most important components of domestic demand had not yet shown clear signs of a turnaround.
dovish	Council members agreed that there had been a significant deterioration in the prospects for domestic growth recently.
dovish	The decline in demand, coupled with the more persistent effect of fiscal adjustment measures than earlier thought, could contribute to the disinflation process continuing.
dovish	Several members pointed out that, as an effect of the financial market disruption, there had been a sustained fall in international investors? willingness to take risks.
dovish	Several members noted that, due to the poor economic prospects, the country?s vulnerability had increased, despite a fall in the external financing requirement.
dovish	In the members? judgement, the prospects for growth had not improved materially recently.
dovish	According to the members? opinion, the prospective rate of growth of the Hungarian economy continues to slightly lag behind its potential.
dovish	Some Council members thought that in parallel with the appreciation of the real exchange rate, economic prospects had further deteriorated in the previous period due to decreased export demand and increased import competition, which may lead to higher unemployment.
dovish	Looking ahead, a pick-up in external demand was unlikely to be a driver of economic recovery over the medium term, due to the deterioration in the outlook for business activity in Europe and at the international level.
dovish	Members? judged that the prospects for growth had not improved materially compared with previous months and that the domestic macroeconomic environment was basically supportive of disinflation.
dovish	Several members noted that there had been further deceleration in global economic activity and, therefore, external demand was unlikely to contribute to a pick-up in domestic economic growth.
dovish	Following discussion of the latest macroeconomic news and financial market developments, members of the Council agreed that the outlook for inflation had improved recently, due to the worsening prospects for the global economy.
dovish	Members judged that the decline in foreign currency lending by commercial banks would pose a severe problem.
dovish	Members agreed that due to slackening domestic and external demand as well as the fall in commodity prices, inflation might fall significantly below target in 2010. 
dovish	However, with the easing in global financial turbulence and the conclusion of the agreement with the IMF, the Bank should have more scope to reduce interest rates.
dovish	In this respect, several members pointed out that the expected decline of corporate production and the deterioration of profitability should result in the gradual shrinking of the balance of payments deficit, which might mitigate external vulnerability.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, the prospects for growth in Europe were likely to deteriorate and the economy was expected to fall into a protracted recession.
dovish	Members agreed that the inflation target was likely to be undershot, assuming that monetary conditions remained unchanged.
dovish	Members of the Council agreed that the global economic environment and the prospects for growth both had deteriorated more sharply than expected, and the current recession may consequently be deeper and more protracted. 
dovish	Some members warned that the country?s relative position had even deteriorated further compared with Poland and the Czech Republic.
dovish	In addition to the latest available inflation data, adjustment by firms through wages and employment also pointed to a reduction in upside risks to inflation.
dovish	Monetary Council members agreed that, in the current recessionary environment, the Bank?s 3% target for inflation was likely to be met on the horizon relevant for monetary policy.
dovish	In the current recessionary environment, a negative output gap and below-target inflation could be expected over the medium term.
dovish	In addition, several members noted that decelerating the decline in real economic activity, preventing a further narrowing of credit supply and easing the conditions for forint lending also made it necessary to reduce interest rates.
dovish	Some members noted that the outlook for growth in the global economy remained uncertain and it was difficult to tell whether the downturn would entail just one or more dips. 
dovish	Referring to consumption and retail sales data, several members noted that in the economic environment characterised by subdued demand, inflation might continue to fall on the horizon relevant for monetary policy.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, the outlook for the real economy had not improved, and the risk that domestic macroeconomic consolidation would take longer than elsewhere in Europe had increased.
dovish	Monetary Council members agreed that in the current economic environment characterised by subdued demand, the outlook for inflation allowed the Bank to reduce the base rate further.
dovish	Market optimism had deteriorated in the past two weeks. 
dovish	Monetary Council members agreed that there had clearly been a reduction in investors? perceptions of risks in March, which made it possible for the Council continue the easing cycle justified by macroeconomic fundamentals.
dovish	Several members, however, argued that reducing interest rates in a sequence of small steps might better facilitate achievement of the Bank?s long-term monetary policy objectives.
dovish	The vast majority of Council members were of the view that in the current situation neither the requirements of inflation targeting nor assessments of risks facing the economy allowed for a reduction in interest rates.
dovish	Some thought that the trend inflation measures, indicating a sustained fall in inflation, as well as better-than-expected readings of recent tradables inflation suggested that upside risks to inflation may have fallen since May.
dovish	Monetary Council members agreed that ? despite the pick-up in economic growth this year ? output would remain below its potential level and the unemployment rate would remain elevated on the horizon relevant for monetary policy.
dovish	Accompanied by constrained credit supply, household saving might remain high, which might act as a brake on inflation on the demand side.
dovish	Some members took the view that the lower-than-expected GDP data suggested the output gap might be larger than projected in the Report.
dovish	In addition to forced savings related to rising monthly instalments on loans, households? willingness to borrow may have fallen and, therefore, the sector?s net lending was likely to rise on a sustained basis.
dovish	For several members, the decline in wage inflation was a positive development, which ? if it proved lasting ? could have a benign impact on inflation expectations and the long-term outlook for monetary policy.
dovish	Weak domestic demand continued to exert a dampening impact on inflation.
dovish	On another argument, loose labour market conditions, slower-than-expected earnings growth and the continued sharp adjustment by households were factors contributing to a further decline in inflation.
dovish	On another argument, however, core inflation was lower than the path outlined in the November projection, due to the slower pass-through of the unprocessed food price shock, which was positive news in terms of the longer-term outlook for inflation.
dovish	It was noted that weaker-than-expected demand was mainly attributable to two factors: the slowdown in earnings growth, closely related to the loose labour market, and the increase in instalments on household debt, driven by the appreciation of the Swiss franc.
dovish	Weaker-than-expected domestic demand posed downside risks.
dovish	Members agreed that slack domestic demand and the negative output gap continued to be the most important factors contributing to the disinflation process.
dovish	In terms of macroeconomic developments, several members noted that the downward effect on prices of weak domestic demand, driven in part by loose labour market conditions, had taken hold.
dovish	One member noted that by restraining administered price rises, the Government?s anti-inflation policy had greatly contributed to inflation falling to historically low levels.
dovish	However, the latest domestic and international data on real economic performance had caused a negative surprise worldwide.
dovish	Weaker-than-expected global and European activity had been reflected in the performance of the Hungarian export sector, consumption and investment activity and subdued net inflows of foreign direct investment.
dovish	Repayment burdens prompted households to adjust their balance sheets and, as a result, a further decline in domestic purchasing power could not be ruled out over the short term.
dovish	The slowdown in external demand was already reflected in domestic macroeconomic data.
dovish	Some members felt that the announcement by Moody?s that it had downgraded Hungary?s sovereign debt to sub-investment grade was an unexpected move, in light of the fact that it came after the Government had announced its intention to begin talks with the IMF.
dovish	The risks of a further decline in potential growth may have increased, due to companies delaying investment plans.
dovish	The level of output would remain below its potential over the entire period.
dovish	One member firmly rejected the option of raising interest rates and argued in favour of reducing rates, as an interest rate increase would send the economy into recession, which would add to inflation through spiralling effects rather than reducing it.
dovish	Members agreed that the significantly weaker-than-expected preliminary first-quarter GDP data may have reflected in part transient factors affecting some sectors of the economy and the faster-than-anticipated weakening in recent economic performance.
dovish	The sharp deterioration in the external environment worsened the short-term outlook for exports. 
dovish	One member noted that the price of crude oil, a key factor in terms of domestic inflation developments, had fallen in recent months due to the slowdown in global activity and further declines in oil prices could not be ruled out.
dovish	Members agreed that the current level of the central bank base rate placed a significant burden on the real economy.
dovish	The majority view of the Council was that it was time to act in the interests of growth.
dovish	The majority view was that the inflation target could be met on the horizon relevant for policy, given the strong disinflationary impact of significantly below-potential growth.
dovish	In terms of the Council?s future interest rate decisions, members agreed that the Council should consider a further reduction in interest rates if data in the coming months confirmed that the improvement in financial market sentiment persisted and the medium-term outlook for inflation remained consistent with the 3% target. 
dovish	In the Monetary Council?s judgement, the Hungarian economy was in recession and external and domestic factors both pointed to weak growth in the period ahead.
dovish	Balance-sheet deleveraging by economic agents would continue, with consumption and investment likely to fall further, mainly due to tight credit conditions and the uncertain business environment, followed by a gradual recovery from 2014. 
dovish	Inflation in January had slowed more sharply than expected.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, the economic data becoming available in the past month suggested that subdued demand continued to exert a strong disinflationary impact on prices.
dovish	Council members agreed that the gradual reduction in debt stocks accumulated during the years prior to the crisis, the generally tight credit conditions and the uncertainty surrounding the outlook for activity all pointed to cautious investment and consumption decisions.
dovish	Reductions in utilities prices at the start of the year had led to a material slowdown in consumer price inflation.
dovish	The annual price index had fallen below the Bank?s 3% target by February.
dovish	The Council expected weak demand conditions to persist, ensuring that inflationary pressures in the economy remained low in the period ahead. 
dovish	With a wider cyclical position, the ability of companies to pass on cost shocks into prices was more limited and the inflationary impact of cost shocks to companies was smaller, which in turn might warrant a further, substantial easing of policy.
dovish	Consequently, a more accommodating monetary policy would ensure that the 3% inflation target was achieved.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, the Hungarian economy was characterised by significant unused capacity, and inflationary pressures were likely to remain moderate over the medium term.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, the significant reductions in interest rates so far and the volatile conditions in financial markets might justify changing the pace or extent of policy easing in the coming months.
dovish	Looking forward, companies? efforts to rebuild profitability, loose labour market conditions and the adjustment of inflation expectations were expected to lead to moderate earnings growth.
dovish	Overall, demand was likely to remain below the productive capacity of the economy, and therefore the real economic environment was expected to remain disinflationary looking ahead. 
dovish	The negative output gap might close at the end of the forecast horizon.
dovish	In the Council?s judgement, there remained a significant degree of unused capacity in the economy.
dovish	Subdued wage dynamics suggested that companies were adjusting to higher production costs mainly through the labour market.
dovish	In view of the above, Council members agreed that developments in inflation and the real economy were consistent with a further easing in monetary conditions.
dovish	The productive capacity of the economy continued to be lower than optimal, with the output gap remaining negative.
dovish	The level of output remained below its potential and was likely to approximate that level again at the end of the horizon relevant for monetary policy.
dovish	The unemployment rate was falling, but still exceeded its long-term level determined by structural factors.
dovish	Delivering price stability in the medium term pointed in the direction of monetary easing. 
dovish	The persistently low inflation environment might provide a firmer anchor for inflation expectations. 
dovish	Household consumption, however, which was relevant in terms of inflationary pressures from the domestic real economy, was likely to grow only slowly, and therefore the real economic environment was expected to continue to have a disinflationary impact, although to a declining extent.
dovish	Global investor sentiment had been volatile in the past quarter, reflecting the Fed?s decision to further reduce the pace of its asset purchases, the increased focus on the vulnerability of some emerging economies and the escalation of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia.
dovish	Several Council members noted that they perceived continued downside risks to external inflation, particularly in the euro area, which could provide room for further cautious easing of policy.
dovish	Several Council members noted that the latest inflation data pointed towards further cautious policy easing.
dovish	In the alternative scenario assuming a persistently low external inflation environment and a slower-than- expected recovery in external demand, the inflation target might be achieved with looser monetary conditions than assumed in the baseline scenario.
dovish	Based on the inflation data for June, consumer prices continued to show historically low dynamics.
dovish	Several members briefly reviewed the macroeconomic effects of the Bank?s easing cycle that had begun in August 2012 and agreed that there remained scope for some policy easing.
dovish	Domestic real economic and labour market factors continued to have a disinflationary impact, and low inflation was likely to persist for a sustained period.
dovish	Monetary conditions remained loose overall and, consequently, global interest rate and liquidity conditions continued to be supportive.
dovish	In the first half of the forecast period, domestic inflation was likely to be substantially below the target, mainly reflecting cost shocks having downside effects on inflation as well as the weak demand and inflation environment in Hungary?s major trading partner countries.
dovish	Based on the inflation data for December, consumer prices showed historically low dynamics.
dovish	The continued decline in oil prices and the fall in processed food prices had contributed to the further easing in inflation.
dovish	Global sentiment had deteriorated significantly around the end of the year, due to the turbulence in Russian financial markets and the political events in Greece.
dovish	Monetary conditions remained loose overall and, consequently, global interest rate and liquidity conditions continued to be supportive.
dovish	Lasting geopolitical tensions could lead to a decline in external demand, associated with a rise in the risk premium.
dovish	Overall, moderate underlying inflation developments continued to point in the direction of a low inflation environment.
dovish	International investor sentiment had been mostly unfavourable in the period since the Council?s latest interest rate decision.
dovish	Growth had been slightly slower than projected in the June Inflation Report, presumably as a result of the weaker agricultural output. 
dovish	Most major emerging market economies were decelerating.
dovish	Economic growth was expected to slow in early 2016 as EU transfers decline.
dovish	The persistently low cost environment contained the increase in the consumer price index.
dovish	A degree of unused capacity remained in the economy, and therefore the domestic real economic environment continued to have a disinflationary impact. 
dovish	Inflation expectations had fallen to a historic low.
dovish	Hungarian economic growth had continued at a weaker-than-expected rate in the third quarter of 2015.
dovish	There had been a marked fall in oil prices recently.
dovish	In view of the March Inflation Report projection, the Council assessed that the sustainable achievement of the inflation target had made it necessary to implement a comprehensive easing of monetary conditions.
dovish	The unconventional, targeted monetary policy instruments introduced by the Bank facilitated a decline in long-term yields and, consequently, an easing in monetary conditions.
dovish	Taking these factors into account, all members supported the reduction in the base rate.
dovish	Industrial production had fallen in September compared to a year earlier.
dovish	Forward-looking domestic money market real interest rates had fallen substantially over recent years and were expected to remain in negative territory for a prolonged period.
dovish	The Monetary Council expected that this decision would mean the crowding out of at least HUF 100- 200 billion additional liquidity from the deposit facility.
dovish	The Bank aimed to ease monetary conditions and provide a corresponding degree of support to the economy through a decline in money market rates.
dovish	The Bank continued to aim to maintain loose monetary conditions and provide a corresponding degree of support to the economy through money market rates.
dovish	The upward effect of this on costs was likely to be offset by the reduction in employers? social contributions and in the corporate income tax rate.
dovish	As a consequence, the three-month BUBOR had remained at a historically low level.
dovish	In May 2017, inflation had eased to 2.1 percent.
dovish	In the euro area, market expectations on the interest rate path had shifted down.
dovish	Moderate imported inflation and historically low inflation expectations as well as the VAT rate cuts, announced for next year, had been slowing the rise in domestic prices.
dovish	External inflation, particularly in the euro area, was likely to remain low for a prolonged period.
dovish	Moderate imported inflation and historically low inflation expectations as well as the VAT rate cuts, announced for next year, were slowing the rise in domestic prices.
dovish	To ensure this, in November 2017, the Council had decided to introduce two unconventional instruments from January 2018, which would constitute an integral part of the Bank?s set of monetary policy instruments.
dovish	In addition, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank would launch a targeted programme aimed at purchasing mortgage bonds with maturities of three years or more.
dovish	The MNB would continue the mortgage bond purchases and the monetary policy interest rate swap facility as programmes, continuously and for a prolonged period, thus they constituted integral part of the set of monetary policy instruments.
dovish	In the past period, several regional central banks had sent a message indicating a looser policy stance.
dovish	In line with the Council?s forward guidance, the current set of instruments contributed efficiently to the maintenance of the loose monetary conditions over a prolonged period and to an improvement in financial stability.
dovish	With inflation expectations anchored at low levels, higher oil prices were unlikely to generate second-round effects.
dovish	As a consequence, appetite for risk in emerging markets had deteriorated.
dovish	The Monetary Council would launch the FGS fix with a total amount of HUF 1,000 billion in early 2019.
dovish	Due to the deteriorating economic outlook in Europe and downside risks to inflation related to the euro area, the European Central Bank (ECB) had modified its forward guidance. 
dovish	Consequently, the first interest rate hike had been shifted to a later date.
dovish	The ECB would launch a new series of quarterly targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTRO-III) to improve the effectiveness of monetary policy transmission and to maintain favourable bank lending conditions.
dovish	Weakening external activity was restraining the pace of price increase.
dovish	The significantly lower-than-expected core inflation excluding indirect tax effects and the effects of the slowdown in European economic activity indicated a strengthening in downside risks to the longer-term outlook for inflation.
dovish	To improve the effectiveness of monetary policy transmission, the Monetary Council had launched its corporate bond purchasing programme.
dovish	The amount of the Hungarian Government Security Plus purchased had continued to be considerable, more than half of which had been registered as a new source of financing for the government sector.
dovish	The emergence of the coronavirus was likely to increase uncertainty in the coming months, which could lead to a deterioration in global growth prospects again and an increase in risk aversion in emerging markets.
dovish	The spread of the virus could again lead to a deterioration in global growth prospects and an increase in risk aversion in emerging markets.
dovish	Overall, sentiment in international financial markets had rather deteriorated since the Council?s previous interest rate decision.
dovish	The coronavirus pandemic had hit the global economy in a weakened state; its negative economic effects had appeared quickly in a wide range of countries. 
dovish	In a much more uncertain than usual and volatile environment, it was the task of economic policy to mitigate the effects on real economy, to lay the foundations for economic recovery and to foster social cohesion.
dovish	There had been an enormous deterioration in sentiment in global financial markets: markets had been characterised by a general increase in risk aversion and selling pressure.
dovish	The spread of the pandemic resulted in a rapid decline in expected inflation.
dovish	Council Members pointed out that, as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the economic situation had changed profoundly, and the outlook was deteriorating day by day.
dovish	These measures aimed to provide the required amount of liquidity for all economic agents, including households, non-financial corporations, the banking system and the government budget.
dovish	Capital outflows had continued in emerging markets.
dovish	The MNB?s government securities purchases would take place in the secondary market, and might be conducted at auctions organised by the Bank and in individual secondary market transactions. 
dovish	Mortgage bond purchases would take place in the primary and the secondary markets. 
dovish	Members pointed out that external economic activity had slowed down substantially as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
dovish	To maintain price stability and support the recovery of economic growth, fine-tuning of monetary conditions had become necessary.
dovish	Disinflationary effects had strengthened generally.
dovish	The Federal Reserve had continued its liquidity-providing and asset purchase programmes.
dovish	The European Central Bank had raised the total amount of its asset purchase programme (PEPP), had launched to counteract the effects of the pandemic, to EUR 1,350 billion and had extended its horizon.
dovish	In our region, the decision-makers at the Czech and the Polish central banks had cut the policy rates to close to zero as well.
dovish	Based on the projection in the June Inflation Report, Hungarian economic performance in 2020 was likely to be more subdued than earlier expected, while the outlook for inflation had shifted downwards persistently.
dovish	At its current policy meeting, to maintain price stability and to support the restoration of economic growth, the Monetary Council had reduced the base rate by 15 basis points to 0.60 percent.
dovish	In order to ensure this, the Bank had reintroduced its swap facility providing foreign currency liquidity in September.
dovish	Turning to inflation developments, members agreed that after the higher repricing during the summer months, disinflationary effects had strengthened from September. 
dovish	Due to the increasingly stronger restrictions introduced, the economic recovery was expected to be delayed.
dovish	Based on data for the third quarter, economic activity had undergone a significant correction after reaching a low point in April and May.
dovish	The MNB would continue to set the one-week deposit rate at weekly tenders, in response to the increase in risk aversion vis-a-vis emerging markets.
dovish	In the Monetary Council?s assessment, the monetary conditions established at the short end supported price stability, the preservation of financial stability and the recovery of economic growth in a sustainable manner.
dovish	In response to the adverse economic effects arising from the coronavirus pandemic, the MNB had expanded significantly the central bank balance sheet in 2020, thereby supporting the recovery of economic growth as well.
dovish	The MNB would be ready to increase its balance sheet further to manage risks arising from the coronavirus pandemic and to foster the quick and sustainable recovery of economic growth in a targeted way.
dovish	Global investor sentiment had deteriorated since the Council?s previous policy decision and the probability of tensions in financial markets had increased. 
dovish	Members agreed that, with the current interest rate move, the easing cycle would end.
dovish	By contrast, the ECB had decided to extend its quantitative easing programme.
dovish	Considering the first half of 2020 as a whole, the Hungarian economy had exhibited a similar decline to that seen in other countries in the region.
hawkish	Members preferring a 25 basis point increase in rates judged that the latest macroeconomic data pointed to rising inflation expectations.
hawkish	The continued rapid increase in services prices within the headline figure for December was highly likely to have been a consequence of increased expectations.
hawkish	Wage inflation was not yet showing signs of slowing, particularly in the services sector, which was of particular importance for future developments in inflation.
hawkish	Some members emphasised that it would be appropriate to prevent a further rise in inflation expectations with a well-timed tightening and that the Council should not wait until such an increase in expectations was reflected in a sustained rise in inflation.
hawkish	Among the upward risks, the danger of an increase in inflation expectations and its effect on wage agreements were given special attention.
hawkish	The high rate of earnings growth at the end of 2006, particularly in the services sector, pointed to the existence of such risks.
hawkish	Members supporting an increase in interest rates stressed that private sector wage growth had exceeded the Bank?s earlier expectations for several months now.
hawkish	In addition, inflation could peak at a higher level in 2007 due to greater-than-expected increases in administered prices earlier in the year, which might also contribute to a rise in inflation expectations and a build-up of inflationary pressure. 
hawkish	The higher-than-expected rise in private sector gross wages in January could not be clearly attributed to a pick-up in wage inflation.
hawkish	In all probability, higher-than-expected gross wages in the private sector reflected an increase in inflation expectations and contributed to cost-push inflation pressures.
hawkish	Data released after the Report had been finalised reinforced the view that developments in nominal wages represented upside risks to inflation.
hawkish	The expected rise in energy prices would lead to higher inflation expectations.
hawkish	One member warned that food prices could rise more strongly at home than internationally. 
hawkish	However, based on the latest projections issued by international organisations, high food prices could persist for some time compared to earlier expectations, which, in turn, could have adverse effects on domestic inflation developments.
hawkish	Council members agreed that upside risks to inflation had picked up further recently, driven by the acceleration of imported inflation on the back of rises in food and energy prices, as well as the expected increase in administered prices.
hawkish	Therefore, a precondition for meeting the 2009 inflation target was that the Bank should stand ready to tighten policy in order to prevent a rise in expectations, if circumstances warranted it.
hawkish	Members pointed out that the latest data showed inflation rising at a higher-than-expected rate, due to increases in processed food prices.
hawkish	Members agreed that the increase in administered prices could have an adverse effect on consumer prices, particularly in the current inflation environment.
hawkish	Some members warned that the liberalisation of the energy market would also pose upside risks to the outlook for inflation.
hawkish	Members agreed that the upside risks to inflation had increased significantly in recent months.
hawkish	Inflation was likely to be above target this year and the next, which underscored the need for further monetary tightening.
hawkish	Members agreed that the February projection, according to which inflation could be above target in 2009 assuming unchanged monetary conditions, should remain the starting point.
hawkish	Several members stressed that energy prices had reached new historical highs recently and the moderation in food price inflation had been weaker than expected.
hawkish	Under these circumstances, decisive action could reinforce the role of the inflation target in guiding expectations, and consequently, they could reduce the real economic costs of achieving price stability.
hawkish	However, several other members stressed that available information and the logic of inflation targeting implied a continuation of the tightening cycle and further increases in interest rates in a series of small steps.
hawkish	Several members noted that the rise in international commodity prices and global inflationary pressures played a major role in this development, which, however, could be even more sustained than assumed in the May Report.
hawkish	In addition, the actions taken by the Government could make a significant contribution to an increase in the potential growth rate of the economy and to securing a sustainable debt path for the country.
hawkish	Members agreed that there were a number of signs that financial market sentiment may have turned around, with a positive shift in sentiment towards emerging countries, and Central and Eastern Europe in particular. 
hawkish	Monetary Council members also agreed that there had been a sustained and significant improvement in perceptions of risks associated with the Hungarian economy over recent months and that the risk of contagion through CEE financial markets had diminished.
hawkish	Members agreed that there had been a clear, albeit previously unexpected, improvement in perceptions of risks in the past month. 
hawkish	With the favourable changes in conditions in global financial markets, CDS spreads and government bond yields in Central and Eastern European countries had fallen, and exchange rates had appreciated.
hawkish	Several members agreed that the improvement in the global growth outlook pointed to a possible increase in the risk of imported inflation through a faster-than-expected rise in oil and commodity prices.
hawkish	Nevertheless, domestic developments also pointed to a higher inflation path. 
hawkish	Several members noted that anchoring inflation expectations, i.e. keeping inflationary pressures from taking hold with the economic recovery, was becoming a key issue as demand picked up. 
hawkish	Others, however, judged last month?s jump in services prices and the widening in the gap between manufacturing and service sector wage indices to be bad news for the inflation outlook.
hawkish	The latest inflation data suggested that prices would rise more rapidly over the near term than in the baseline projection in the August Report.
hawkish	Inflationary pressure arising from postponed price hikes might build up as the recovery proceeded.
hawkish	Some members, however, noted that monetary policy should respond immediately to potential future rises in inflation risks, because at the moment inflation could be reduced at much lower costs as a consequence of the balance sheet effects for households.
hawkish	Some members, however, were of the view that households had responded to the economic recession in part by reining back consumption spending and that latent inflationary pressures might arise once consumption picked up as the economy gradually recovered.
hawkish	Some members noted that perceptions of the risks associated with the economy had fallen over the past six weeks, due mainly to an improvement in global appetite for risk and the  Government?s commitment to meeting this year?s deficit target of below 3%.
hawkish	The baseline projection for inflation was above the target over the period to 2012, assuming unchanged monetary conditions.
hawkish	It was noted that the disinflation process had come to an end, despite moderate wage growth, with the sharp increase in food prices playing a key role.
hawkish	In addition, the negative output gap closing earlier than previously expected might also imply higher future inflation.
hawkish	By contrast, the recommendations for wage increases, agreed at the National Interest Reconciliation Council, and rises in the price of oil were exacerbating the upside risks to inflation.
hawkish	Rising consumption, in turn, pointed to a faster-than-expected closing of the negative output gap. 
hawkish	Both developments had potentially negative implications for inflation expectations, as the output gap might be smaller, which might entail more modest disinflationary effects.
hawkish	The majority of Monetary Council members judged that inflation was likely to be considerably above the Bank?s 3% target in the coming quarters, due to the significant cost shocks hitting the economy.
hawkish	That, in turn, might make it difficult to anchor inflation expectations and add to the risk of second-round inflationary effects.
hawkish	It was therefore necessary to tighten monetary conditions further.
hawkish	Some members emphasised that the output gap might close faster than assumed in the November projection, due in part to a pick-up in consumption and in part because the level of potential output might be much lower than previously assumed, primarily as a result of the persistently low level of capital accumulation.
hawkish	Several members noted that the food and oil price shocks might well lead to stronger inflationary pressures over a sustained period and that upside risks to inflation had increased relative to the November projection.
hawkish	Others also emphasised that inflationary pressures in Europe could be expected to pick up.
hawkish	To facilitate a decision, Pter Bihari supported an increase of 25 basis points in interest rates.
hawkish	Several members took the view that there was a significant possibility that the cost shocks would be passed through into prices and, as a result, inflation would remain above the target in 2012.
hawkish	Members agreed that there had been a slight reduction in perceptions of the risks associated with the Hungarian economy and, as a result, investor demand for forint-denominated assets had increased.
hawkish	Commodity price rises and their faster pass-through posed upside risks.
hawkish	During the period since March, both inflation and core inflation have been higher than the projection in the Bank?s March Quarterly Report on Inflation.
hawkish	One member noted that the significant increase in the minimum wage could add to cost- push inflationary pressure.
hawkish	At the same time, the improvement in investor sentiment had had a favourable impact on domestic and international financial markets over the past month. 
hawkish	Several members noted that inflation was likely to rise only temporarily at the beginning of this year due to the increase in indirect taxes.
hawkish	The consumer price index was expected to rise significantly, reflecting the effects of increases in VAT and excise duties as well as the rise in oil prices and the depreciation of the forint exchange rate in the second half of 2011.
hawkish	However, several members noted that the consumer price index for March appeared to confirm the assumption in the Report that the pass-through of the VAT increase to prices was faster and greater than previously thought.
hawkish	The consumer price index was likely to remain above the inflation target over the policy horizon, reflecting the effects of tax changes, administrative measures and rising commodity prices.
hawkish	 Members agreed that CPI inflation in June and July had been higher than previously expected, as a result of higher unprocessed food prices and the increase in excise duties in the course of the year.
hawkish	Several members noted that the fiscal adjustment measures expected during the latter part of the year, the higher-than-expected global oil prices and the unfolding food price shock represented additional upside risks to inflation.
hawkish	Some members thought that despite the correction in June, the extent of the pick-up in wage growth posed an upside risk to inflation.
hawkish	This was suggested by the increase in underlying inflation in recent months, which might be explained by the fact that economic agents? inflation expectations may have increased, due to the protracted period of above-target inflation and the continuing cost shocks to the economy.
hawkish	In that case, the likelihood of so-called second-round inflationary effects of the cost shocks, working through expectations, was greater.
hawkish	Inflation had picked up in September, largely reflecting rises in food and fuel prices. 
hawkish	Some members noted that the measures represented significant upside risks to inflation.
hawkish	Decision-makers agreed that global market sentiment was supportive at present, which had a positive impact on perceptions about Hungary.
hawkish	In the Council?s judgement, economic growth was likely to pick up gradually in the coming quarters.
hawkish	Export growth was expected to continue in line with the rate of growth of external demand, which was projected to pick up markedly starting from the end of this year.
hawkish	The preliminary estimate of GDP growth for the third quarter suggested a gradual improvement in the outlook for economic growth.
hawkish	Growth was expected to accelerate further in the coming quarters, driven by both exports and domestic demand components.
hawkish	Rising exports were likely to play a role as a source of growth, supported among other factors by an increase in market share due to the establishment of new production capacities in the automobile industry, in addition to the recovery in external activity.
hawkish	Domestic demand was expected to strengthen in the coming years.
hawkish	Whole-economy investment was likely to pick up further, bolstered by the increasing use of EU funding.
hawkish	Incoming data showed that economic growth had continued in the fourth quarter, as reflected by monthly data on industrial production, the trade surplus, construction output and retail trade turnover. 
hawkish	However, the depreciation of the forint in recent months passed through gradually into the prices of core inflation items, which in turn pointed to higher underlying inflation.
hawkish	Capacity utilisation was likely to rise steadily as economic activity continued to recover. 
hawkish	According to labour market data for March, demand for labour had increased and unemployment had fallen, pointing to a tighter labour market going forward.
hawkish	Growth was expected to pick up gradually in the quarters ahead and to return to a more balanced structure, with domestic demand likely to make an increasing contribution.
hawkish	The CDS spread, foreign currency bond spreads and long-term yields had declined.
hawkish	In the risk scenario assuming an unfavourable external environment and higher investor risk aversion, inflation moved in line with price stability in the medium term under considerably tighter monetary conditions than implied by the baseline projection.
hawkish	A third scenario, assuming a pick-up in domestic employment and consumption and, consequently, strongergrowth in domestic activity, also implied a tighter monetary policy stance.
hawkish	Despite the pick-up in domestic demand, capacity utilisation was expected to improve only gradually due to the protracted recovery in Hungary?s export markets.
hawkish	Investment was likely to continue accelerating, reflecting the increasing use of EU funding and the easing in credit constraints also due to the Bank?s Funding for Growth Scheme.
hawkish	The trade surplus, while remaining substantial in the coming years even as imports continued to rise due to increasing consumption and investment, was likely to keep the current account surplus high over the coming years.
hawkish	The positive turnaround in sentiment reflected the release of favourable macroeconomic data in the US.
hawkish	In the coming quarters, domestic demand was still likely to be the main engine behind growth.
hawkish	Rising household real income as a result of low inflation, the reduced need for deleveraging and increasing employment were expected to contribute to the increase in household consumption.
hawkish	On the whole, international investor sentiment had been favourable in the period since the Council?s latest interest rate decision.
hawkish	Robust economic growth might continue, supported by rising external demand, in addition to growing domestic demand.
hawkish	In June, industrial production had risen relative to the previous month and the same period a year earlier.
hawkish	Core inflation was likely to rise gradually as a result of an expansion in domestic demand and rises in wages.
hawkish	Core inflation had been rising gradually as a result of an expansion in household consumption and an acceleration in wage growth.
hawkish	The Hungarian economy had grown dynamically again in the fourth quarter of 2015.
hawkish	Rising incomes, the pick-up in lending and the gradual decline in precautionary motives contributed to a substantial expansion in consumption, which in turn provided considerable support for economic growth.
hawkish	Parallel to the rise in the employment rate, the unemployment rate continued to fall.
hawkish	The expansionary impact on demand of next year?s draft budget is likely to speed up the closure of the gap.
hawkish	The international rating agency Fitch has upgraded Hungary?s long-term government debt rating to investment grade.
hawkish	Whole-economy wage growth had accelerated further, which was likely to raise core inflation gradually through rising household consumption. 
hawkish	The acceleration in growth and the expansionary impact on demand of next year?s budget contributed to the closure of the gap. 
hawkish	Labour demand had remained strong, and therefore the unemployment rate had fallen further in the second quarter, accompanied by an increase in the number of employees.
hawkish	Economic growth of around 3 per cent could be maintained by the extension of the Funding for Growth Scheme, the Growth Supporting Programme and the Government?s measures to promote housing construction as well as by the faster drawdown and efficient use of EU funding.
hawkish	Both corporate and household lending had increased in August.
hawkish	Looking ahead, whole-economy wage growth was likely to rise further, as a result of continued strong demand for labour and the latest wage agreement.
hawkish	The strong expansion in household consumption had been the main driving force behind growth. 
hawkish	As expected, the Fed had decided to raise interest rates and, looking ahead, had moved towards a tighter policy path.
hawkish	Whole-economy wage growth was likely to remain strong, as a result of continued strong demand for labour and the wage agreement at the end of last year.
hawkish	In parallel with strong wage growth expected to continue this year, household consumption was likely to grow dynamically, which would be supported by the realisation of consumption deferred from previous years as well.
hawkish	Whole-economy wage growth was likely to pick up further, reflecting the dynamic expansion in employment, the tight labour market and the wage agreement at the end of last year.
hawkish	Market expectations on both the ECB?s and the Fed?s interest rate path had shifted up.
hawkish	Industrial production had risen again in June; and the sector?s performance was expected to be buoyant in 2017 as a whole.
hawkish	In the Council?s assessment, Hungarian economic growth picked up over the forecast horizon.
hawkish	The expansion in domestic employment, the tight labour market as well as increases in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage had led to a general, dynamic rise in whole-economy wages.
hawkish	Oil prices had risen in recent months.
hawkish	Robust growth in construction and the expansion in the performance of the service sector were likely to continue in the coming months.
hawkish	Economic growth this year would also be supported by the fiscal budget and the stimulating effects on investment of European Union funding.
hawkish	Strong credit growth had continued. 
hawkish	Within this, the stock of lending to SMEs had grown even more strongly. 
hawkish	Investors? perceptions about the Central and Eastern European region continued to be positive.
hawkish	Over the medium term, buoyant domestic demand and the increase in wage costs would point to an increase in domestic core inflation.
hawkish	The unemployment rate had been at its historical low.
hawkish	Strong credit growth had continued in February.
hawkish	As part of the fine-tuning of the unconventional policy instruments affecting long-term yields, the Council made a decision to phase out the monetary policy IRS tenders and the mortgage bond purchase programme by the end of 2018.
hawkish	The MNB would sterilise the liquidity provided under this programme by a preferential deposit facility bearing interest at the central bank base rate.
hawkish	The Hungarian economy had grown strongly, by 4.9 percent in the second quarter of 2018 relative to a year earlier.
hawkish	The fundamentals of the Hungarian economy were strong, and convergence to developed economies continued. 
hawkish	The recent increase in core inflation excluding indirect tax effects signalled a strengthening of persistent inflationary trends.
hawkish	The dynamic expansion in corporate and household lending had contributed significantly to last year?s strong economic growth. 
hawkish	The fundamentals of the Hungarian economy were strong, and convergence to developed economies had continued.
hawkish	Favourable economic developments had been reflected in the fact that the international rating agencies S&P and Fitch Ratings had upgraded Hungary?s debt rating.
hawkish	The Monetary Council was prepared for the gradual and cautious normalisation of monetary policy, which would begin with the modification of unconventional instruments.
hawkish	The MNB would sterilise the liquidity provided under this programme by a preferential deposit facility bearing interest at the central bank base rate.
hawkish	Members agreed that the volatility of inflation had increased significantly in recent quarters, and therefore developments in measures of underlying inflation should continue to be closely monitored.
hawkish	As a result of the dynamic growth in credit markets, the investment rate was likely to stabilise at high levels.
hawkish	Furthermore, the Council reduced the average amount of liquidity to be crowded out for the second quarter of 2019 by HUF 100 billion to at least HUF 300-500 billion and would take this into account in setting the stock of central bank swap instruments.
hawkish	Persistently buoyant domestic demand was boosting.
hawkish	The increase in headline inflation and core inflation in October had reflected changes in the price index for processed food.
hawkish	Fiscal policy would make counter-cyclical reserves in the coming years as well.
hawkish	The significant improvement in economic activity had been reflected mostly in the June data.
hawkish	As a whole, investor sentiment in global financial markets had improved recently.
hawkish	Some members pointed out that the price of crude oil had risen back to levels prior to the coronavirus pandemic and that rises in developed country long- term yields had also had a significant effect on emerging regions.
hawkish	Council members again drew attention to the fact that inflation was expected to be temporarily around 4 percent in the spring months due to base effects and the increase in excise taxes on tobacco products at the beginning of the year.
hawkish	In the fourth quarter of 2020, the performance of the global economy had been more favourable than expected. 
hawkish	Credit markets had continued to expand strongly even in international comparison.
hawkish	In terms of demand, the recovery had been driven by an increase in household income, a pick-up in government and private investment and the accelerating withdrawal of EU funds.
hawkish	In terms of demand and supply, the Hungarian economy exhibited the potential for a rapid recovery.
hawkish	The MNB laid special emphasis on developments in inflation expectations following the restart of the economy, and on the neutralisation of potential second-round effects.
hawkish	World trade and global industrial production were already above the levels seen before the pandemic.
hawkish	However, a bigger-than-expected spike in US inflation in April had led to a rise in global long-term yields again.
hawkish	 As a result of the earlier opening than the European average, the restart of the economy was expected to pick up significantly in the second quarter, which would support a rapid recovery of Hungarian GDP.
hawkish	Based on the incoming data, Hungarian GDP growth in the first quarter of 2021 had significantly exceeded the MNB?s March projection and market expectations as well.
hawkish	Several members indicated that, based on real-time data for April, further sectors had begun to recover, hence considering base effects a double-digit economic growth was expected in the second quarter.
hawkish	Members emphasised that upside risks to inflation had generally increased driven by both external and internal factors.
hawkish	External inflationary environment was rising due to sharp increases in global commodity prices and international freight costs.
hawkish	In the Monetary Council?s assessment, the upside risks related to the outlook for inflation had generally increased.
hawkish	Wage growth had remained dynamic despite the pandemic; and the unemployment rate had remained low by international standards. 
hawkish	The vaccination coverage rate of Hungary?s population was at the top in the European Union, which had provided a good foundation for restarting economic life.
hawkish	Inflation was likely to stay mostly above the central bank's tolerance band until end of the year. 
hawkish	 Upside risks to the outlook for inflation had generally increased.
hawkish	Decision-makers stressed that, consistent with the projection in the Inflation Report, a proactive monetary policy was necessary for inflation to stabilise around the central bank target from mid-2022.
hawkish	The Monetary Council unanimously took a decision that launching a cycle of interest rate hikes was warranted to ensure price stability, avoid persistent inflationary risks, and anchor inflation expectations.
hawkish	With a general tightening of monetary policy conditions, the cycle of base rate hikes was a definite indication to economic agents, that monetary policy was committed to low inflation. 
hawkish	The pick-up in economic recovery had made it possible for the Bank to phase out certain crisis management tools.
hawkish	Accordingly, with the exhaustion of the HUF 3,000 billion available, the Bank had closed the FGS Go!.
hawkish	The historically high investment rate was expected to continue rising on the forecast horizon.
hawkish	Inflation in the euro area and the US had risen since the beginning of the year.
hawkish	Demand-supply frictions, emerging temporarily due to the rapid restart of the domestic economy, and the renewed tightening of labour market capacities expected in certain sectors, combined with dynamic wage growth, had increased inflation risks.
hawkish	Sustained rises in commodity prices and international freight costs pointed to a higher external inflation environment.
hawkish	The Monetary Council was unanimous in arguing that risks to the inflation outlook remained on the upside.
hawkish	Therefore, in order to ensure price stability, prevent second-round inflationary effects and anchor inflation expectations, a continuation of the cycle of interest rate hikes with a firm step was warranted.
hawkish	Council members unanimously underlined that the cycle of interest rate hikes should be executed on a monthly basis.
hawkish	In parallel with the tightening of interest rate conditions, the Monetary Council continued to phase out the instruments having an effect at longer maturities. 
hawkish	The Monetary Council decided to begin gradually withdrawing the government securities purchase programme from 24 August while considering aspects of maintaining market stability.
hawkish	Global economic recovery had continued in the summer months, and in parallel, inflation had risen.
hawkish	Council members were unanimous in arguing that due to a shift in achieving the inflation target and the persistence of upside risks surrounding the outlook, it was necessary to continue the cycle of interest rate hikes and to tighten monetary conditions by using several instruments.
hawkish	Inflation risks continued to lie to the upside.
hawkish	In the Monetary Council?s view, the tightening of interest rate conditions was also supported by the reduction in the target amount of weekly purchases under the government securities programme from HUF 50 billion to HUF 40 billion.
hawkish	In the case of energy sources, the rise in prices had been extraordinarily high.
hawkish	The price of natural gas had more than tripled since the beginning of the summer, while the price of electricity had more than doubled.
hawkish	World market price of crude oil had risen to over USD 80.
hawkish	Hungary was among the economies in Europe showing the fastest recovery. 
hawkish	At its October meeting, the Monetary Council decided to continue to tighten monetary conditions.
hawkish	Members unanimously argued that the effects of the global increase in energy prices were being felt in an increasingly wide range of consumer prices.
hawkish	The Monetary Council agreed that the upside risks to inflation might persist longer than previously expected.
hawkish	Inflation had risen to decade highs in several countries, which had been further aggravated by disruptions in supply in a growing number of markets, in addition to persistent rises in commodity and energy prices.
hawkish	The policy stances of the world?s leading central banks had become tighter.
hawkish	At their November policy meeting, the decision-makers of the Federal Reserve had decided to start phasing out the asset purchase programme.
hawkish	Higher-than-expected and sustained increases in commodity prices were rapidly being incorporated into consumer prices in a buoyant domestic demand environment, leading to rising inflation in general.
hawkish	The tight labour market, coupled with strong wage growth and a higher inflation environment, might lead to increases in inflation expectations and strengthen second-round inflation risks.
hawkish	In response to the higher inflation path and the risk of increasing second-round effects, the Monetary Council decided to continue tightening monetary conditions at a faster pace.
hawkish	Monetary Council considered it a key priority to anchor inflation expectations properly and thereby continuously to mitigate second-round inflation risks.
hawkish	Inflation had risen to levels not seen for several decades in a number of countries, which had been further aggravated by disruptions in supply across a growing range of markets, in addition to persistent rises in commodity and energy prices.
hawkish	Monetary Council members agreed that the global financial market environment had stabilised further, risk appetite had picked up and stability risks had diminished compared to earlier stages of the financial crisis.
hawkish	On the next occasion, in March 2018, the Council would decide on the amount of liquidity to be crowded out and would adjust the stock of central bank swap instruments accordingly.
neutral	The Council expected the inflation rate to remain around zero per cent on average this year, before rising gradually to levels around the medium-term target in the course of next year.
neutral	As a result, risks to the outlook for domestic inflation had become balanced again.
neutral	Economic activity might begin to normalise from the second quarter of 2021 as the coronavirus vaccine became widely available.
neutral	Though the June inflation data indicated a somewhat downward trend compared to the previous two months, the rate of increase does not exceed the characteristic noise of the data.
neutral	Looking forward, market uncertainty was likely to remain for some time.
neutral	They noted that the uncertainty characterising global money and capital markets had spilled over to Hungary.
neutral	In contrast with these scenarios, the risk that the euro-area sovereign debt crisis would escalate had increased.
neutral	However, sentiment had been volatile, due to uncertainty about the future of unconventional measures used by global central banks, which warranted an even more cautious approach to domestic monetary policy.
neutral	Sentiment in global financial markets had been volatile since the Council?s latest interest rate- setting decision, mainly influenced by the outcome of the referendum on EU membership in the United Kingdom and uncertainty around the country?s exit from the EU.
neutral	The forint had appreciated against the euro.
neutral	Volatility remained extremely elevated.
neutral	After the discussion, the Chairman invited members to vote on the two propositions.
neutral	Based on the votes cast, the Council left the base rate unchanged at 8.00%. 
neutral	Nine members voted to maintain the base rate and four members voted for a 25 basis point increase.
neutral	Members arguing for maintaining rates were of the view that as long as there was no clear-cut evidence of the perceived inflationary risks materialising, the Council should not alter its current ?wait-and-see? approach.
neutral	Firstly, the latest wage and inflation data did not deviate too much from earlier expectations.
neutral	Secondly, other factors which suggested some upward pressure on inflation mainly reflected one-off price shocks and, particularly as regards wage data, changes in the regulatory environment.
neutral	Members agreed that there remained significant uncertainty around the central projection in the Report.
neutral	Wage data for 2006 may have been distorted by the changing seasonal pattern of bonus payments due to increases in tax and contribution rates, as well as by the one-off effects of the tightening in labour market regulations.
neutral	Consequently, the underlying developments could not be assessed accurately at present.
neutral	For these members, one reason for maintaining a ?wait-and-see? approach was that the subdued outlook for growth in the private sector could have a moderating effect on pay rises at the beginning of the year, and moreover, it was conceivable that the current risks would not materialise.
neutral	In this regard, wage developments over the coming months might be of crucial importance. 
neutral	Members arguing for maintaining rates attached much importance to the fact that the central projection had been changed considerably on the relevant horizon relative to November, and that it had been revised down to a level consistent with the inflation target.
neutral	Following discussion of the latest macroeconomic news and financial market developments, the only proposition offered to the Council was to maintain interest rates. 
neutral	Several members thought that the risks to inflation had not increased in recent months, and therefore further policy tightening was not needed at the current meeting.
neutral	According to information currently available, the inflation target could be met in 2008.
neutral	Following the review of macroeconomic information and the situation of the financial market, it was proposed that the base rate of interest should be maintained.
neutral	Several Council members claimed that the picture concerning the likely inflation trend has not become considerably clearer since previous month?s meeting.
neutral	Several members emphasised that the uncertainty concerning inflation will last as long as more accurate information concerning the trends on the labour market and inflation-related outlooks are not available, which requires a cautious interest rate policy.
neutral	Although the upward revision to the projection mainly reflected the higher forecast for energy prices and so it was believed to be a temporary factor, with its effect unwinding by 2009, the uncertainty around the central projection pointing to higher inflation should not be ignored.
neutral	After the discussion, the Chairman invited members to vote on the three propositions.
neutral	However, they emphasised that developments in the interest rate path are influenced by a number of factors which are external from the aspect of monetary policy, thus the present interest rate step does not mean any commitment with regard to future interest rate decisions.
neutral	Based on the latest wage data it is still not clear that the risk of sticking wage inflation became lower.
neutral	The members essentially agreed that it continued to be difficult to assess the developments on the labour market.
neutral	The changes in the regulatory environment considerably distort the data on wages and employment, therefore it would be misleading to rely only on a single indicator; all available information must be used before making the decision.
neutral	The majority of members present at the meeting agreed that the outlook for inflation was basically favourable, similarly to earlier months.
neutral	Also, there was general agreement in the Council that inflation had passed its peak, as evidenced by the latest data: the trend inflation indicator, after eliminating the effects of changes in regulations, was close to levels around 3%.
neutral	Members judged that recent domestic activity data were in line with the central inflation projection. 
neutral	Council members judged that the picture of domestic macroeconomic conditions had not changed materially since the previous policy meeting and that the 3% inflation target could be met in 2009.
neutral	Council members were in agreement that anchoring inflation expectations continued to be a key task for monetary policy in the current environment and that 2008 wage developments would play a major role in this regard.
neutral	Several members noted that the effects of the various adverse shocks to consumer prices could reinforce each other. 
neutral	After the discussion, the Chairman invited members to vote on the propositions.
neutral	Before the immediate policy decision, the Monetary Council took a decision on the abandonment of the peg of the forint to the euro and the fluctuation band of the domestic currency.
neutral	Views were divided on investors? current judgement about the Hungarian economy.
neutral	In members? judgement, enhancing the role of the central bank inflation target as an anchor was a key task for monetary policy. 
neutral	Following discussions on the latest macroeconomic developments and the financial situation, members of the Monetary Council agreed that short-term inflation processes were consistent with the earlier expectations of the central bank. 
neutral	The majority of Council members judged that, due to the uncertainty surrounding commodity prices which had a strong impact on the outlook for inflation, monetary policy should take a wait-and-see stance, leaving open the possibility of changing interest rates either up or down.
neutral	Members agreed that the Bank should adopt a very cautious approach to setting interest rates.
neutral	According to the Monetary Council?s opinion, monetary policy decisions should focus on the risks to financial stability and inflation perspectives in the current situation, and should strive to maintain the sustainability of external financing.
neutral	The risks related to the outlook for inflation appeared to be balanced. 
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, under the current circumstances monetary policy had to adopt a wait-and-see approach.
neutral	Several members stressed that monetary policy actions could only play a marginal role in resolving the problems facing the region.
neutral	The upside and downside risks to inflation appeared to be broadly balanced.
neutral	In assessing recent inflation developments, Council members agreed that, based on the current outlook, the inflation target could be met in 2010.
neutral	The evolution of inflation was largely consistent with the previous favourable path, and the latest inflation data did not influence the outlook for future inflation.
neutral	Further central bank actions would be decided in the light of the sustainability of the current improvement in conditions.
neutral	However, members were divided over the assessment of the latest inflation data.
neutral	The majority of members took the view that economic performance had been broadly in line with the May projection and there had been little change in the outlook for inflation.
neutral	In discussing interest rate policy issues, the large majority of members preferred to adopt a wait-and-see attitude, as more time was needed to assess the market reaction to the postponement of the loan review.
neutral	Consequently, inflation might come close to the 3% target.
neutral	Several members noted that the distribution of risks around the baseline projection in the Report might be more balanced.
neutral	Due to the persistent weakness of domestic demand, inflation was expected to ease back to close the 3% target on the horizon relevant for monetary policy and, therefore, interest rate policy should adopt a wait-and-see approach until incoming data suggest otherwise.
neutral	Considering the various interest rate policy options, arguments for raising or maintaining the central bank base rate were largely in balance.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, inflation developments in the coming months would continue to be shaped by upward and downward effects, and therefore there was a high degree of uncertainty surrounding the short-term outlook for inflation.
neutral	Members were unanimous in concluding that the baseline projection in the Report, which assumed that the current 6% level of official interest rates might ensure that inflation would come back to the 3% target in 2012 H2, should be taken as the starting point for a policy decision this month.
neutral	Members agreed that a further increase in interest rates now was not justified along the path of inflation implied by the Report.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, the March outturn for inflation was broadly in line with the projection produced by Bank staff.
neutral	It was also argued that the recent interest rate decision by the European Central Bank had no influence on Hungarian monetary policy, given that it, and its communication, had not changed market participants? expectations and had been in line with the projection in the Report.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, risks to inflation remained both on the upside and the downside.
neutral	Before taking a decision on interest rates, the Monetary Council reviewed the latest macroeconomic and financial market developments and discussed the June issue of the Quarterly Report on Inflation produced by MNB staff.
neutral	Similarly, inflation developments were also determined by opposing forces.
neutral	While the commodity price shock, particularly the higher-than-previous path for the price of oil, would by itself have upward effects on inflation, subdued domestic demand and the loose labour market acted as a brake on price and wage increases.
neutral	In terms of their impact on inflation, however, the two forces counteracted each other.
neutral	The Council, in reviewing the economic outlook, discussed in detail the alternative scenarios presented in the Report, which suggested both upside and downside risks to inflation.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, maintaining interest rates at their current level over a sustained period was still justified.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, the latest inflation data had been in line with expectations.
neutral	However, members held the unanimous view that monetary policy should closely monitor potential pass-through into the consumer price index.
neutral	In assessing the various interest rate policy options, the overwhelming majority of members agreed that under the current circumstances the Council should continue with its wait-and-see approach.
neutral	Members had differing views about how the depreciation of the forint would affect inflation.
neutral	Council members agreed that the latest data had not materially altered the outlook for the economy and inflation.
neutral	Members shared the view that it was crucially important that an agreement between the Hungarian Government and the IMF and EU on a financial safety net for Hungary was reached as soon as possible. 
neutral	In discussing the monetary policy options, the majority of members agreed that maintaining the base rate was warranted this month based on the macroeconomic projection in the Report.
neutral	During the discussion of the policy decision, members summarised their arguments in favour of and against an interest rate reduction.
neutral	Decision-makers? views were divided on the causes of the forint depreciation in recent weeks. 
neutral	Members agreed that it would be appropriate to send a signal to market participants about expected changes in the future conduct of interest rate policy.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, based on the above factors, there was no material inflationary pressure in the economy, and therefore an accommodative stance of monetary policy was warranted in order to achieve the inflation target over the medium term.
neutral	There were both upside and downside risks to developments in investment, and consequently to the future path of the economy?s potential output.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, Hungarian economic growth might continue in a more balanced pattern than previously.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, a cautious approach to policy was warranted due to uncertainty related to the global financial environment.
neutral	Looking ahead, Hungarian economic growth might continue in a more balanced pattern than previously.
neutral	Several members noted that financial market conditions were stable and might remain supportive in the period ahead, due to the accommodative policy by developed country central banks.
neutral	One member commented that price stability has already been achieved and inflation over the forecast horizon is expected to be in line with the inflation target set out based on the MNB Act. 
neutral	Moreover, further policy easing is not warranted, and it would only facilitate economic growth to a barely perceptible degree.
neutral	The Monetary Council would continue to closely monitor developments in the global financial environment.
neutral	In connection with the baseline projection in the June Report, the Monetary Council had identified three alternative scenarios which might significantly influence the future conduct of monetary policy.
neutral	Inflationary pressures in the economy were likely to remain moderate for an extended period.
neutral	One member commented that price stability had already been achieved and inflation over the forecast horizon was expected to be in line with the inflation target set by the Bank under the MNB Act.
neutral	Looking ahead, economic growth might continue in a more balanced pattern than previously, with the recovery in domestic demand likely to make a larger contribution.
neutral	Several members judged that the current level of interest rates was appropriate to achieve the inflation target in the medium term and ensured a corresponding degree of support to the economy. 
neutral	The Council judged that, based on available information, the current level of the central bank base rate was consistent with the medium-term achievement of price stability and a corresponding degree of support to the economy.
neutral	If the assumptions underlying the Bank?s projection held, achieving the medium-term inflation target pointed in the direction of maintaining current loose monetary conditions for an extended period. 
neutral	In addition to the primary goal of meeting the inflation target, the Council also considered the condition of the real economy and incorporated financial stability aspects into its decisions.
neutral	A number of members emphasised that, following the Bank?s forward guidance accompanying the July and August policy decisions, maintaining interest rates was consistent with market expectations in terms of credibility and fitted well with the Council?s earlier communication.
neutral	The majority of members judged inflation risks to be symmetrical, and therefore felt that a decision to change the policy stance was not warranted.
neutral	Long-term yields had also remained around levels seen at the beginning of the quarter, following a sharp rise due to temporary factors.
neutral	The Monetary Council had considered three scenarios around the baseline projection in the September Report, which, if they materialised, might influence the future stance of monetary policy.
neutral	It was the unanimous view of the Council that, with current monetary conditions maintained, inflation was likely to move into line with the target over the medium term.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, a cautious approach to policy was warranted due to uncertainty about future developments in the global financial environment.
neutral	It was the unanimous view of the Council that, with current monetary conditions maintained, inflation was likely to move into line with the target over the medium term.
neutral	In the Council?s judgement, the current level of interest rates was appropriate to achieve the inflation target in the medium term and ensured a corresponding degree of stimulus to the real economy, and therefore no change was required.
neutral	Maintaining interest rates improved the Bank?s credibility and predictability and fitted well with the Council?s earlier communication.
neutral	Significant differences remained across the individual regions in terms of economic growth.
neutral	In the second half of the forecast period, inflation was likely to move in line with the inflation target, reflecting the recovery in activity and the increase in wage dynamics, as the effects of cost shocks faded away. 
neutral	Members voted unanimously in favour of maintaining the base rate at 2.10 per cent.
neutral	There had been differences in the monetary policy stance of globally influential central banks in recent months: the ECB had extended its quantitative easing programme while the Fed had maintained its monetary policy instruments.
neutral	Members agreed that the primary objective of the MNB continued to be the achievement and maintenance of price stability.
neutral	Taking into account that developments in the macroeconomy and financial markets had been generally in line with the projection since the latest policy decision, the overwhelming majority of decision-makers did not see a case for change of the forward guidance.
neutral	However, inflation was expected to approach levels around the 3 per cent target only towards the end of the forecast period, reflecting moderate underlying inflation.
neutral	The stabilisation of inflation expectations around the target was likely to ensure that price and wage-setting would be consistent with the inflation target over the medium term as domestic demand growth strengthened.
neutral	The three-month, fixed-rate central bank deposit would be the Magyar Nemzeti Bank?s main policy instrument from 23 September 2015, replacing the two-week deposit facility. 
neutral	The two-week central bank deposit would remain part of the Bank?s instruments; however, the facility would be offered at auctions, with quantity limits.
neutral	At its meeting, the Council reviewed the projection in the September Inflation Report to be published on 24 September.
neutral	Several members noted that, based on money market yields, the expected date of the first interest rate increase shifted later, and the overwhelming majority of analysts expected Hungarian interest rates to remain unchanged until the end of 2016 even if the Fed meanwhile raised interest rates.
neutral	Hungarian financial markets had been relatively calm in the period, with the forint appreciating slightly against the euro.
neutral	Market expectations had moved in line with the Bank?s forward guidance announced in September and were consistent with maintaining the base rate unchanged over the entire forecast horizon.
neutral	In the Council?s assessment, the assumptions underlying the September Inflation Report had continued to hold.
neutral	In the Council?s view, the current interest rate decision was consistent with the Bank?s past behaviour and previous communication as well as with market expectations, and therefore it strengthened the Bank's credibility and predictability. 
neutral	Overall, sentiment in global financial markets had been mixed over the period since the Council?s latest policy decision.
neutral	The Magyar Nemzeti Bank?s Monetary Council decided that, beginning from December 2015, it would issue shorter-form press releases following its policy meetings in the months of publication of the Inflation Report, in order to facilitate comparison of monthly press releases.
neutral	At its meeting on 15 December, the Monetary Council discussed the December 2015 Inflation Report. 
neutral	If the assumptions underlying the Bank?s projections held, the current level of the base rate and maintaining loose monetary conditions for an extended period, over the entire forecast horizon, were consistent with the medium-term achievement of the inflation target and a corresponding degree of support to the economy.
neutral	Employment and unemployment had been broadly unchanged.
neutral	In the Monetary Council?s assessment, a cautious approach to monetary policy was still warranted.
neutral	Using negative interest rates is still a new phenomenon in monetary policy, and therefore it was useful to wait for international experience in this field.
neutral	Yields on domestic long-term government securities had not changed notably since the previous policy decision. 
neutral	Council members agreed that the current interest rate level continued to be consistent with the sustainable achievement of the inflation target.
neutral	In June 2016 the annual inflation rate had remained unchanged.
neutral	The time profile of this year?s economic growth was characterised by divergent trends.
neutral	In discussing the current decision, after reviewing the macroeconomic developments, Council members agreed that there had been no events since the previous policy decision which would warrant a change in the current interest rate level.
neutral	Council members agreed that the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy were strong and the current interest rate level continued to be consistent with the sustainable achievement of the inflation target.
neutral	Council members discussed in detail the global financial market effects resulting from the outcome of the referendum on the United Kingdom's EU membership and agreed that domestic financial markets appeared to be stable despite the global turbulence.
neutral	The time profile of this year?s economic growth was characterised by duality. 
neutral	The Bank?s measures of underlying inflation continued to indicate a moderate inflationary environment in the economy.
neutral	Global financial markets had been calm overall since the Council?s latest interest rate-setting decision.
neutral	The US Fed and the ECB had made decisions in diverging policy directions in December.
neutral	The Council considered the limit on the three-month deposit stock and its potential future change an integral part of monetary policy instruments.
neutral	However, the Bank?s measures of underlying inflation had remained stable, in line with expectations.
neutral	Developments in the Bank?s measures of underlying inflation had remained stable, in line with expectations.
neutral	In line with the Bank?s expectations, there had not yet been any upward pressure on inflation from wages.
neutral	The consumer price index was likely to remain near its current level over the remainder of this year.
neutral	Taking these factors into account, all members voted unanimously in favour of leaving the base rate, the overnight deposit rate, the overnight lending rate and the one-week lending rate unchanged. 
neutral	The consumer price index was likely to rise temporarily in the coming months, before easing back to around current levels by the end of the year.
neutral	However, there were significant differences among the countries of the region, and therefore it was useful to distinguish between them.
neutral	In line with the Bank?s expectations, there had not yet been any significant upward pressure on inflation from wages.
neutral	Before taking its policy decision on 24 October, the Council had reviewed recent developments in inflation and the macroeconomy.
neutral	The inflation target was expected to be achieved in a sustainable manner by the middle of 2019.
neutral	In line with the Bank?s expectations, there had not yet been any significant upward pressure on inflation from wages.
neutral	In the Council?s assessment, the gradual limitation on the stock of three- month deposits had fulfilled its role and the HUF 75 billion year-end upper limit on the stock would not be reduced further.
neutral	In the autumn months, inflation had been basically in line with the September Inflation Report projection.
neutral	Hungarian economic output was close to its potential level.
neutral	Following the review of macroeconomic and financial market developments, the Council discussed the details of the current monetary policy decision.
neutral	Members agreed that data becoming available over the recent month had been in line with the baseline scenario of the December projection and no such real economy or financial market event had occurred that would justify a change in the monetary policy.
neutral	In view of the experiences gained from the first tender, the Bank had fine-tuned the details of the programme to achieve more effective monetary transmission, as a result of which tenders held in February had been in line with the Bank?s aims.
neutral	In the Council?s assessment, maintaining the base rate and the loose monetary conditions at both the short and long ends for an extended period was necessary to achieve the inflation target in a sustainable manner.
neutral	This was also supported by the external environment, as global inflation and the ECB?s monetary policy stance had remained broadly unchanged.
neutral	In the current volatile financial market environment, the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy continued to be stable.
neutral	Inflation targeting is a monetary policy framework where the central bank?s primary objective is to achieve price stability, which it seeks to reach with a publicly announced inflation target.
neutral	The conditions for price stability are assumed to hold if economic agents can expect over a longer period with confidence that inflation remains steadily around the target.
neutral	The Magyar Nemzeti Bank takes account of all factors influencing inflation developments on the horizon of monetary policy.
neutral	The Magyar Nemzeti Bank?s single anchor is inflation.
neutral	The Council considered a wide range of incoming data; however, those data influenced the Council?s assessments only through their effects on developments in inflation. 
neutral	Members agreed that developments in euro area monetary conditions were of prime importance for the Magyar Nemzeti Bank?s monetary policy.
neutral	Sentiment in financial markets had been calmer recently.
neutral	Incoming macroeconomic data for the past quarter had been in line with the Bank?s expectations.
neutral	Inflationary pressures from wages continued to be moderate.
neutral	Looking forward, the Bank would adjust the monetary conditions necessary to achieve the inflation target in a sustainable manner by creating an optimal combination of two of its instruments: swaps providing forint liquidity and the interest rate corridor. 
neutral	The Bank?s primary objective was to achieve the inflation target in a sustainable manner.
neutral	Therefore, in assessing the outlook, the Monetary Council paid even more attention than usual to developments in the measures of underlying inflation capturing persistent trends.
neutral	A dichotomy was observed between the factors determining developments in inflation and core inflation excluding indirect tax effects.
neutral	Future measures would be influenced by developments in the outlook for inflation over a 5-8 quarter horizon, which was assessed by the Monetary Council with special attention quarter to quarter. 
neutral	Following a gradual decline, inflation was likely to stabilise at the 3 percent inflation target in the second half of the forecast horizon.
neutral	As a result, risks to the outlook for domestic inflation had become balanced again.
neutral	The outlook for growth had remained persistently muted.
neutral	Forward guidance of the world?s leading central banks did not indicate further loosening measures.  
neutral	In this extraordinary macroeconomic environment, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank?s (MNB?s) mandate was still to achieve and maintain price stability, to preserve financial stability, as well as to support the Government?s economic policy.
neutral	Inflation expectations had remained anchored.
neutral	In assessing inflation developments, Council members agreed that as a result of coronavirus, pricing decisions in recent months had been characterised by greater uncertainty.
neutral	In this regard, several decision- makers pointed out that a cautious monetary policy approach had to be maintained.
neutral	In the Monetary Council?s assessment, the monetary conditions established at the short end supported price stability, the preservation of financial stability and the recovery of economic growth in a sustainable manner.
neutral	Without prejudice to its primary objective, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank preserved financial stability and supported the Government?s economic policy.
neutral	Following the review of macroeconomic and financial market developments, the Monetary Council assessed the central bank programmes and discussed the details of its monetary policy decision.
neutral	Economic activity might begin to normalise from the second quarter of 2021 as the coronavirus vaccine became widely available.
neutral	Members agreed that financial market developments had recently been driven mainly by information related to the growing use of the coronavirus vaccine as well as by parallel changes in economic prospects. 
neutral	It was a key priority for the MNB that short-term rates in every sub-market and at all times should develop consistently with the level of short-term rates deemed optimal by the Monetary Council.
neutral	As a result, inflation was expected to stabilise around the central bank target again.
neutral	Moving on to discuss inflation developments, Council members agreed that inflation was primarily shaped by temporary effects.
neutral	Due to base effects, inflation was expected to fall back into the central bank's tolerance band again at the beginning of 2022 and to stabilise around the central bank target from mid-2022 as a result of monetary policy measures.
dovish	Some Council members emphasised that the structure of the current economic growth is favourable to low inflation.
dovish	At the same time, they argued, core inflation has remained low.
dovish	Other Council members emphasised that April saw a decline in the growth rate of wages in the corporate sector.
dovish	Some members pointed out that the turbulences in financial markets resulted in lowering forecasts of economic growth in the United States and Europe.
dovish	It was argued that if economic growth in the United States and Europe fell short of previous expectations, then smaller exports of Poland should be expected, resulting in lower economic growth and lower inflationary pressure.
dovish	While discussing the outlook for economic growth, it was underlined that due to the financial market turbulences the forecasts of economic growth were lowered for the United States, while in Europe there was a decline in business confidence indicators.
dovish	It was argued that if the economic growth in the external environment of the Polish economy fell short of previous expectations, then lower growth of Polish exports should be expected and, consequently, also lower economic growth and lower inflationary pressure.
dovish	As a consequence, economic slowdown of Poland?s main trade partners would translate into a weakened economic activity in Poland. 
dovish	It was also pointed out that in the face of turmoil in international financial markets some central banks decided to ease or restrain further monetary policy.
dovish	They also pointed to the symptoms of an economic weakening.
dovish	While discussing the changes in the environment of the Polish economy, it was pointed out that there were downward revisions of the forecasts of economic growth in the United States and the European Union and that there was a risk of a deceleration in worldwide economic growth, which may slow the growth of Polish exports and the inflow of direct investments and, consequently, reduce the rate of economic growth in Poland.
dovish	Some Council members emphasised that, in the face of the deteriorating situation in international financial markets and the dampening prospect of economic growth, major central banks were expected to ease their monetary policy.
dovish	While addressing the changes in external factors affecting the Polish economy, the discussants pointed at further deterioration in the outlook for economic growth in the United States.
dovish	It was indicated that this increased the likelihood of a slowdown in the world economy, in particular in Great Britain and, consequently, the euro area.
dovish	While discussing the outlook for economic growth in Poland, it was pointed out that December data on industrial output and retail sales were significantly below expectations.
dovish	Those members pointed out that the likely slowdown in the world economy might lead to a slowdown in economic growth in Poland.
dovish	 It was also emphasised that in February inflation was significantly below expectations.
dovish	Lower than expected growth in prices in February was driven ? apart from the revision of the CPI basket ? by lower than expected growth in food and fuel prices.
dovish	In the opinion of some Council members, a significant downward revision of the January inflation, together with markedly lower than expected inflation in February, allowed to assume that inflation might return within the limit for deviations from the NBP?s inflation target sooner than accounted for in the February inflation projection. 
dovish	The situation deteriorated also in the euro area, while in the opinion of some Council members, the pace of this process might indicate that economic slowdown in the euro area was not only driven by the recession in the United States but also by weak domestic demand in the euro area.
dovish	While discussing the outlook for economic growth in Poland, it was pointed out that in May the growth of industrial output was markedly lower than expected, which had been previously signalled by business sentiment indicators.
dovish	Particular attention was paid to strong economic slowdown, deteriorating economic conditions indicators and further worsening of consumer sentiment in economies which constitute the main markets for Polish exports ? Germany, France, Italy and Great Britain.
dovish	Some members of the Council pointed out that the crisis in the housing market and financial markets would contribute to a significant drop in consumer demand in the US economy.
dovish	With respect to the situation in the labour market in Poland, attention was drawn to the continuous decline in employment growth since the beginning of the year and the decline in wage growth in the corporate sector in August 2008.
dovish	It was pointed out that the slowdown in global economic activity curbed inflationary pressure, prompting central banks of many countries to ease their monetary policy. 
dovish	It was pointed out that the recession in the euro area, which is Poland?s main trading partner, would lead to the lowering of demand for Polish exports.
dovish	It was also argued that the drop in the value of households? assets being the result of the downturn in the financial markets might additionally dampen the consumption growth.
dovish	It was also argued that due to the economic slowdown in Western Europe, one could expect increased returns of Poles from economic migration and, consequently, a rise in the number of the economically active persons, which would contribute to further easing of the wage pressure. 
dovish	They also stressed that GDP growth falling below the growth of potential output in the coming quarters would contribute to curbing the inflationary pressure.
dovish	Moreover, those members assessed that due to the possible considerable weakening of economic activity in Poland, inflation in the coming quarters might be significantly lower than assumed in the October inflation projection based on the NECMOD model.
dovish	Other members argued that the decline of GDP growth in the coming quarters below the potential output growth would bring inflation down to the target in the medium term, while pointing out that the weakening of the economic activity in Poland might prove stronger than currently assessed which, coupled with the limited credit availability and market interest rates remaining at an increased level due to the turmoil in the international financial markets, might contribute to bringing down inflation below the target.
dovish	It was also pointed out that global economic slowdown had been accompanied by a strong decline in the prices of oil and other commodities which was conducive to curbing global inflation.
dovish	It was noted that those factors urged many central banks to further considerable interest rate cuts.
dovish	In the opinion of some Council members, considerable deterioration in the external environment of the Polish economy and a risk of significant decline in investment and consumption demand due to deteriorating expectations about future economic situation in Poland suggested that in 2009 GDP growth in Poland might prove lower than anticipated in the NBP?s October projection. 
dovish	While discussing the decision on interest rates, some Council members assessed that further deterioration in the outlook for global economic growth, including the recession observed in Poland?s major trading partners, the signs of considerable decline in economic activity in Poland in subsequent quarters and the resulting anticipated significant lowering of the inflationary pressure in the medium term justified easing the monetary policy at the Council?s November meeting.
dovish	The factor favouring the decision to ease the monetary policy was maintaining the public finance discipline amidst the expected economic slowdown declared by the government?s representatives.
dovish	In the opinion of some Council members the considerable deterioration of the outlook for economic growth in Poland spoke for lowering interest rates by 50 basis points at the November meeting.
dovish	The Council decided to lower the NBP interest rates to the level: the reference rate to 5.75%, the lombard rate to 7.25%, the deposit rate to 4.25% and the rediscount rate to 6.00%.
dovish	The Council decided to lower the NBP interest rates.
dovish	Among major channels through which the world crisis affected the Polish economy were listed: the decline in external demand, deteriorating agents? expectations as to the future economic situation of the country and tightening of banks? lending policy.
dovish	At the same time, it was pointed out that the annual investment growth in the enterprise sector in 2008 Q3 was negative.
dovish	While discussing the future economic situation it was assessed that the slowdown in economic growth would also be driven by a decline in consumption and export growth, and GDP growth in 2008 Q4 and in subsequent quarters would most probably be lower than anticipated in the NBP?s October projection.
dovish	The decline in private consumption growth will be driven by the anticipated deterioration of the labour market situation indicated by the November data on the declining wage growth and falling employment in the enterprise sector and increasing unemployment as well as tightening of household lending criteria.
dovish	Attention was also paid to the stronger than expected decline in CPI inflation in November.
dovish	While discussing the decision on interest rates, the Council assessed that the signs of stronger and faster than expected decline in the global and Polish economic activity combined with considerable lowering of the inflationary pressure in the medium term speak for decreasing the NBP interest rates.
dovish	It was pointed out that the recession in the external environment of the Polish economy and the accompanying decline in foreign demand for Polish goods had increasing impact on the activity in the domestic economy which is corroborated, among other things, by further fall in industrial output in December.
dovish	Considerable reduction in demand, in particular for the products of exporting enterprises, is also signalled by the results of the NBP business climate surveys.
dovish	In this context, the deepening recession in the United States and in the euro area was pointed out together with a risk of further downward revisions of economic growth forecasts for Poland?s main trading partners.
dovish	The majority of the Council members stressed that amidst declining inflationary pressure, monetary policy should focus more on counteracting excessive slowdown of economic growth, thus contributing to maintaining price stability in the medium term.
dovish	Additionally, they argued that consolidating lowering the NBP interest rates to the level consistent with both maintaining price stability and supporting economic activity, would be conducive to fading of expectations for further NBP interest rates reductions, which should limit the pressure for zloty depreciation.
dovish	While discussing the decision on interest rates, the Council assessed that the signs of stronger and faster than expected slowdown in the global and Polish economic activity combined with further decline in inflationary pressure spoke of lowering the NBP interest rates.
dovish	Some Council members assessed that the scale of the economic slowdown in Poland may be larger than forecasted in the February NECMOD projection.
dovish	Those members also pointed to a decreasing wage pressure in the Polish economy.
dovish	They also argued that amidst weakening external and domestic demand, falling demand for labour would cause faster that accounted for in the February inflation projection decline in wage growth which would be conducive to a reduction of growth in unit labour costs.
dovish	At the same time it was emphasized that deteriorating situation in the labour market was curbing consumer demand which was reflected by retail sales data.
dovish	It was also indicated that deteriorating financial situation of enterprises was hindering their investment activity.
dovish	According to some members of the Council, the above mentioned factors, namely reduced external and domestic demand (both consumer and investment demand) would result in GDP growth being considerably lower than accounted for in the February projection.
dovish	 A motion to lower the NBP interest rates by 25 basis points was put forward and passed.
dovish	While discussing the domestic economic growth, it was noted that the decline in exports, industrial output and retail sales in the first months of 2009 confirm a considerable slowdown in the economic activity in Poland.
dovish	It was pointed to a strong decline in the growth of corporate and mortgage loans.
dovish	It was emphasized that reduction in lending has a negative impact on economic activity in Poland.
dovish	In this context, attention was paid to the data suggesting stabilization of economic activity in the United States, while, at the same time, it was pointed out that some recently released data on American economy was worse than expected.
dovish	At the same time, it was assessed that subsequent quarters would see a downward trend in GDP growth which was suggested by macroeconomic data for April 2009.
dovish	On the other hand, it was emphasized that growing unemployment and anticipated decline in wage growth as well as worse consumer sentiment as compared with the previous years constituted factors that might be conducive to limiting future consumption demand.
dovish	While addressing investment in the Polish economy, it was pointed out that further decline in private investment would be driven by unfavourable outlook for economic growth in Poland and abroad amidst production capacity surplus connected with high level of investment in the previous years.
dovish	Moreover, the Council decided that strong contraction in lending justified lowering the required reserve rate by 50 basis points at the current meeting.
dovish	Those members also emphasized that the June projection of the NBP pointed at further considerable decline in GDP growth in the coming quarters.
dovish	Moreover, the decline in inflation might be curbed in the longer term by structural changes in the Polish economy boosting demand for market services.
dovish	Other members of the Council emphasized, however, that the June projection of the NBP pointed at the considerable widening of the negative output gap leading to a strong decline in inflationary pressure over the monetary policy transmission horizon.
dovish	In the assessment of some Council members, economic growth in Poland may run below the central path of the June projection of the NBP, among others, due to the possibly lower economic activity abroad than accounted for in the projection, weaker than projected investment growth connected with the negative business sentiment and a stronger increase in unemployment along with the ensuing drop in households? disposable income.
dovish	On the one hand, further decline in Polish exports and persisting negative annual growth in industrial output (including the output of intermediate and investment goods), deepening fall in employment in the corporate sector, growing unemployment rate and further decline in bank lending all pointed to the continuation of low activity in the Polish economy.
dovish	While discussing interest rates, some members of the Council pointed out that the real ex ante rates, i.e. rates deflated with expected inflation, remained positive, which combined with the output gap remaining negative, could justify further NBP rate cuts.
dovish	A significant drop in inflation in 2010 would be driven ? in the opinion of those members ? by the delayed effects of labour market deterioration resulting both in reduced consumption demand of households and slower growth of costs in enterprises.
dovish	At the meeting, the prevailing view was that the probability of inflation running below the inflation target in the medium term was higher than the probability of inflation running above the target.
dovish	Those Council members also pointed to the persistent unfavourable situation in the labour market as a factor contributing to lower consumption and, consequently, weaker economic activity.
dovish	While addressing forecasts, those members argued that inflation in 2009 Q2 and Q3 proved markedly higher than expected in the June projection.
dovish	In the opinion of some members of the Council this course of future inflation will follow from weaker consumption demand, persistently low wage pressure and the appreciation of nominal zloty exchange rate so far.
dovish	In the opinion of those Council members, GDP growth in Poland would be negatively affected also by such factors as: the deteriorating situation in the labour market, including rising unemployment and the fall in real wages in the enterprise sector, the decline in corporate loans and lending to households growing more slowly than in the last years, as well as the difficult situation of the public finance sector.
dovish	While addressing the labour market situation, members of the Council pointed to persisting unfavourable trends, including in particular the growth in registered unemployment and the continuing negative annual employment growth, as well as the decline in real wages in the enterprise sector in October 2009.
dovish	At the same time, some members of the Council pointed out that rising unemployment might, due to the hysteresis effect, negatively affect the potential GDP growth in the coming period.
dovish	However, other members maintained that given the persistence of the negative output gap in the Polish economy, a fall of inflation could be expected in subsequent quarters.
dovish	Some Council members emphasised that according to most forecasts inflation in those economies would remain at a relatively low level in the coming years, which would be conducive to lower inflation in the world economy.
dovish	Yet, some Council members pointed out that the data on industrial output in December 2009 fell significantly short of expectations. 
dovish	Some Council members pointed out that the situation in the credit market was not improving: lending to the enterprise sector continued to shrink, while the rise in loans to the household sector remains considerably lower than in the previous years.
dovish	In the opinion of those Council members the strong decline in inflation would be driven primarily by base effects connected with high increases in regulated prices at the beginning of 2009 and by a decline in import prices being the result of the hitherto observed zloty appreciation, which will also contribute to the decline in core inflation. 
dovish	Those Council members also pointed out that future decline in inflation was additionally signalled by continuously decreasing growth in M3 aggregate.
dovish	It was also pointed out that the monetary policy in some countries of the region had been further eased in the recent period.
dovish	While discussing developments in consumer prices of goods and services, a marked decline in annual CPI inflation in February 2010 was pointed to, driven by a fall in annual price indices of fuel, energy commodities and food, and by a decline in core inflation.
dovish	They indicated that the demand pressure was low due to the still unfavourable situation in the labour marked.
dovish	Those members also pointed out that the persistently unfavourable situation in the euro area labour market contributed to curbing consumer demand, which was reflected in the decline in retail sales in the first months of 2010.
dovish	While analysing the outlook for inflation, some members of the Council pointed out that in line with the available forecasts the CPI inflation in the coming months would be running below the NBP inflation target.
dovish	This would primarily result from a moderate demand pressure reflected in low production capacity utilisation, recently observed zloty appreciation and low growth of labour costs in the economy, including their decline in industry.
dovish	At the same time, some Council members indicated that inflationary pressures remained low in the major developed economies, where core inflation fell in April 2010 to historically low levels.
dovish	Some members of the Council pointed out that the structure of economic growth in 2010 Q1, including the high share of inventory build-up, might signal slower GDP growth in the months to come.
dovish	They emphasized that low economic activity in the euro area would be a factor curbing GDP growth in Poland.
dovish	Some members of the Council emphasized that intensified financial-market turmoil driven by fiscal imbalances in some Western European countries and potential problems faced by financial institutions from European countries could be a more significant threat to domestic economic growth than the absence of clear signs of economic recovery in the euro area.
dovish	While discussing the investment activity of enterprises it was pointed out that corporate investment was being curtailed due to low production capacity utilization, relatively low demand growth and high uncertainty about the outlook for global economic growth as well as about changes in public finances.
dovish	Other members of the Council pointed out, however, that the persisting relatively high unemployment would be a factor limiting wage growth in the economy.
dovish	While analysing the monetary policy abroad and in Poland, it was pointed out that given the absence of clear signs of economic recovery in the euro area, interest rates in this region might be expected to run at a low level for a longer period of time.
dovish	At the same time, these members pointed to the persistently weak investment demand of the private sector.
dovish	While analysing the inflationary processes in Poland, some members of the Council pointed out that, as anticipated, CPI inflation was running at a relatively low level.
dovish	At the same time, these Council members pointed to the worsening business tendency indicators.
dovish	While discussing inflation developments, it was stressed that both the annual CPI and core inflation remained at low levels, even though a rise in the CPI close to the target could be expected as early as in September 2010.
dovish	They pointed out that some forecasts indicated the possibility of economic growth weakening in 2011 or stabilising at a relatively low level in the next two years.
dovish	After the expiry of the impact of these factors ? in the opinion of those Council members ? the growth of household consumption may slacken, which is confirmed by the low growth of real wages.
dovish	Some Council members assessed that the decline in China?s economic growth could translate ? through its adverse impact on the outlook for German exports ? into a slowdown in the Polish exports.
dovish	It was argued that following a rise observed in August 2010, the subsequent months recorded a drop in the majority of measures of household inflation expectations which were currently at the level close to the NBP's inflation target. 
dovish	On the other hand, other Council members argued that there was still a risk of a slowdown in the global economic growth, and that domestic demand was dependent on consumer sentiment, which had once again slightly deteriorated in November, and on the level of public investment, which could be delayed.
dovish	At the same time, some Council members noted that, taking into account the increasing percentage of irregular loans, banks would not be willing to ease their lending policies.
dovish	According to these Council members, the limited risk of excessive inflationary pressure was also indicated by the decelerated growth of monetary aggregates over the recent period.
dovish	Members of the Council pointed out that tensions connected with the deep fiscal imbalance gradually spread to other countries and in the future might affect major developed economies.
dovish	Among the factors increasing the uncertainty about the sustainability of economic growth acceleration some members of the Council mentioned the hitherto observed absence of recovery in corporate investment.
dovish	They pointed out that the investment activity of enterprises might be curbed by the uncertainty about the situation in the external environment of the Polish economy, limited lending, relatively high fiscal burden, as well as by administrative and legal barriers. 
dovish	While discussing the situation in the labour market, some members of the Council pointed to the persistent relatively high unemployment rate and a fall in unit labour costs in 2010 Q3 which limit the rise in wage pressure.
dovish	While analysing developments in loan aggregates, some Council members highlighted the continuing fall in consumer loans, along with a deceleration in the expansion of housing loans at the beginning of 2011.
dovish	Some Council members expressed the view that the sluggish expansion in corporate loans might have a curbing effect on investment growth.
dovish	In particular, attention was paid to the negative effects of the large fiscal imbalance in some euro area countries, including worsening consumer sentiment in the peripheral countries of the euro area and the risk of increasing financial market turmoil related to the fiscal problems of Greece.
dovish	In the opinion of some Council members, the risk of a global recession recurring has increased in recent weeks.
dovish	While discussing inflationary developments, members of the Council emphasized that the anticipated weakening of the domestic economic activity, connected with both slowdown in the global economic growth, as well as, tightening of the domestic fiscal policy, would support gradual decline in inflation.
dovish	Thus, in the opinion of those Council members, the weakening in economic growth in Poland might turn out significant. 
dovish	When discussing the situation in the financial markets, it was pointed out that growing concerns about the global economic activity had boosted investor expectations of further monetary policy easing by major central banks.
dovish	In turn, few Council members assessed that the current level of the NBP interest rates ? given the signs of a possible significant economic downturn and the risk of inflation falling below the target in the medium term ? is too high and thus may lead to excessive deceleration of economic growth.
dovish	Referring to the situation in Poland, Council members emphasised that recent data on economic activity, including GDP, as well as economic conditions indicators, pointed to a sharper deceleration in domestic economic growth this year than was assumed in the July projection and anticipated by external forecasters.
dovish	A motion was also submitted to decrease the basic NBP interest rates by 0.25 percentage point. 
dovish	While analysing economic situation in Poland, the Council members pointed out that the deceleration of industrial production, a further decline in construction output and weaker retail sales growth indicate that Poland?s GDP growth continues to decrease.
dovish	When discussing the current business conditions in Poland and their outlook, some Council members highlighted that the situation in the labour market was deteriorating faster than expected.
dovish	The incoming economic data had confirmed a marked deterioration in economic conditions in Poland, while the NBP November projection pointed to a risk of a protracted economic slowdown, which will curb demand pressure and pose risk of inflation falling below the target in the medium term.
dovish	When referring to consumption decline, some Council members pointed out that it was largely driven by worsening situation in the labour market, including low wage growth and intensified concerns about job loss amidst heightened unemployment.
dovish	Declining consumption was also partly related to the deceleration in lending to households.
dovish	While discussing the economic developments in Poland, Council members indicated that in 2013 Q1 economic activity had remained weak without signs of recovery.
dovish	In this context, it was emphasised that industrial output in February had declined following its merely slight increase in January, whereas construction output growth continued to be negative.
dovish	While addressing domestic economic activity in early 2013, it was indicated that GDP growth in the first quarter was significantly weaker than expected. 
dovish	While assessing the conditions in the external environment of the Polish economy it was noted that data on the euro area GDP in 2013 Q1 had proven to be weaker than expected and confirmed continuing recession in the euro area.
dovish	Some Council members also emphasized that ? according to available forecasts ? the probability of a temporary fall in inflation below zero in summer had risen.
dovish	It was indicated that the ECB launched the first conditional liquidity provision operations to banks in September and announced the start of asset purchases in 2014 Q4.
dovish	Slow GDP growth in Germany ? Poland?s main trading partner ? was highlighted, along with the decline in the PMI index for that country.
dovish	While discussing monetary policy abroad, it was stressed that major central banks continued to pursue highly expansionary monetary policy. 
dovish	At the same time, it was emphasized that inflation forecasts had been once again revised downwards, indicating that deflation was likely to persist somewhat beyond the end of 2014.
dovish	The ECB had launched a Treasury bond purchase programme, and conducted another TLTRO operation on a larger-than-expected scale.
dovish	It was added that conditions in global industry were very volatile and deteriorating.
dovish	The volume of world trade was declining, which, combined with the announcements of further measures to increase trade barriers was reflected in the persistently weak performance of the industrial sector.
dovish	In particular, in September, the European Central Bank had loosened its monetary policy by decreasing the deposit rate further below zero, announcing the resumption of its asset purchase programme and relaxing the terms of long-term refinancing operations.
dovish	While discussing the current economic situation, the Council members drew attention to the fact that the global economic situation had substantially deteriorated as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by numerous countries to contain its spread.
dovish	The majority of the Council members judged that monetary conditions should be eased in order to mitigate the negative economic impact of the spread of the coronavirus. 
dovish	The Council members underlined that NBP would continue to purchase Treasury securities and debt securities guaranteed by the State Treasury in the secondary market as part of the structural open market operations.
dovish	NBP will also offer bill discount credit intended to refinance corporate loans granted by banks.
dovish	During the discussion it was pointed out that 2007 Q4 brought a decline in enterprises? profitability rate of gross turnover.
dovish	At the same time, the Council decided to introduce, starting on 1 January 2010, the discount rate on bills of exchange accepted from commercial banks for discount at the NBP.
dovish	In the opinion of those members of the Council, only the data released in the coming months will enable the assessment whether economic slowdown in Poland will be strong or limited. 
hawkish	Council members pointed out that the Polish economy is in the stage of strong economic growth and that the high GDP growth may be expected to be sustained in the medium term, at least.
hawkish	Most Council members considered the current GDP growth to be higher than the potential output growth.
hawkish	In the opinion of some Council members, high economic growth in the coming years will be favoured by strong economic growth in EU countries.
hawkish	Some members of the Council believed that there is a significant risk that a demand growth exceeding the growth of potential GDP would lead to a rise in costs and, consequently, to higher inflation and widening external imbalance.
hawkish	They pointed out that, in the medium term, inflation running above the inflation target would result in Polish economy gradually losing its price competitiveness.
hawkish	In the opinion of the majority of Council members, a significant risk factor of inflation growth is the currently observed acceleration in wage growth in the corporate sector.
hawkish	They emphasised that the following factors will contribute to wage growth acceleration: significant decline in unemployment, structural mismatch in the labour market and the emigration of Polish workers to other EU countries, as well as wage convergence between Poland and EU countries.
hawkish	Other discussants, however, assessed that inflation may prove higher than that indicated by the projection, due to the projection?s possible underestimation of wage and GDP growth.
hawkish	Most Council members were of the opinion that it is necessary to tighten monetary policy, yet there were different views on the right timing of the interest rates increase.
hawkish	The majority of Council members assessed that in order to keep inflation close to the target in the medium term, it is necessary to tighten the monetary policy at the present meeting. 
hawkish	At the meeting, a motion to raise the key NBP interest rates by 25 basis points was put forward and passed. 
hawkish	The Council raised the interest rates to the following levels: the reference rate 4.25%, the lombard rate 5.75%, the deposit rate 2.75%, the rediscount rate 4.50%. 
hawkish	Other members of the Council emphasised that GDP is still rising faster than potential output, leading to a widening of the output gap and a rise in inflationary pressure.
hawkish	They assessed that there is a considerable risk that in the medium term the GDP growth exceeding the growth of potential output will lead to a rise in inflation above the inflation target.
hawkish	Council members agreed that the developments in the labour market were the main risk factor for inflation increase.
hawkish	Some Council members assessed that GUS data concerning the growth of wages in the corporate sector in April 2007 and wages in the economy as a whole in 2007 Q1 confirmed that wage growth has been accelerating.
hawkish	They indicated that the rapid growth of wages was driving a considerable - and significantly higher than suggested by the NBP April projection - increase in unit labour costs in the economy. 
hawkish	They also emphasised that given the growing importance of global factors in determining domestic inflation developments, an important indicator of domestic inflationary pressure is the growth rate of services prices, which has been gradually rising since mid-2006 and which now significantly exceeds the growth rate of prices of consumer goods and services.
hawkish	Some Council members pointed out that the increase in inflation expectations is a risk factor for inflation.
hawkish	Some Council members assessed that the persistently high growth in lending will support strong increase in private consumption, and consequently, in aggregate demand and inflation.
hawkish	Some Council members pointed out that the rate of GDP growth in Poland still exceeds the growth rate of potential output, leading to a widening of the output gap and a build-up in inflationary pressure.
hawkish	Strong growth in demand will be supported by a considerable rise in nominal wages and employment, the inflow of transfers of earnings by people working abroad, strong lending growth, including accelerating rise in consumer loans, and an increase in disposable income of households due to a cut in disability pension contributions.
hawkish	Those members assessed that in the conditions of the currently high production capacity utilisation, the dynamic growth of domestic demand creates a significant risk of inflation growing above the inflation target in the medium term.
hawkish	Some Council members pointed to a continually high rate of wage growth and to a very fast drop in unemployment, facilitating a further strong rise in wages.
hawkish	Those members pointed out that acceleration in price growth should also be fuelled by the rise in households? disposable income resulting from the increase in wages, which should support the growth of consumption demand.
hawkish	Among Council members the opinion prevailed that, due to the accumulation of factors leading to inflationary pressure building up in the economy, sustaining inflation at a level consistent with the target in the medium term requires a monetary policy tightening in the nearest future.
hawkish	Other Council members, however, assessed that the potential costs of delaying the interest rate rise outweighed possible benefits related to postponing the decision to change monetary policy parameters.
hawkish	The Council raised the interest rates.
hawkish	Some Council members pointed out that 2007 Q2 brought acceleration in the pace of wage growth in enterprises, which remained higher than labour productivity growth leading to growth in unit labour costs in this sector.
hawkish	A high wage growth in enterprises can also lead to accelerated wage growth in the public sector, where only slight productivity growth was observed, which would be conducive to increased inflation.
hawkish	Some Council members emphasised that the inflation forecasts used at the NBP pointed to a higher inflation path than it had been forecasted a quarter before. 
hawkish	According to the central projection based on the ECMOD model, in 2009 CPI inflation would approach the upper limit for deviations from the inflation target (3.5%), while core net inflation would actually reach this level.
hawkish	The Council also discussed the right time for a possible further tightening of monetary policy.
hawkish	They also emphasised that the high growth in investments and restructuring taking place in enterprises were contributing to the growth of potential GDP, which would be easing inflationary pressure.
hawkish	In the assessment of those members, the current data indicated that the Polish economy remained in the period of strong growth and that the output gap was positive, which was conducive to raising the inflationary pressure.
hawkish	Furthermore, the high growth of loans indicated that the growth of domestic demand may be faster than the growth of potential GDP, which could increase the inflationary pressure.
hawkish	Those members assessed that labour market data signalled building-up inflationary pressure in the Polish economy. 
hawkish	As a result of the discussion some members concluded that the assessment of the inflation outlook based of the ECMOD-based October inflation projection and considering factors not accounted for in the projection indicated that the probability of inflation overshooting the target in the projection horizon was significant and warrant raising interest rates at the October meeting.
hawkish	Other members of the Council pointed out that the October data on industrial production and retail sales did not signal a weakening of economic activity in Poland. 
hawkish	It was emphasised that the high growth of domestic demand was supported by rapid increase of wages and very good financial results of enterprises. 
hawkish	While addressing the current inflation, it was pointed out that following a long period of inflation running below the inflation target, in October the annual growth of consumer price exceeded the inflation target of 2.5%.
hawkish	In conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the sustained fast growth of demand, the tight labour market, the significant increase in current inflation and the risk of the related second-round effects, as well as the expected considerable surge in demand of the public finance sector until the end of 2008, all warranted the assessment that the probability of inflation overshooting the inflation target over the monetary policy transmission horizon was significant and this necessitated an interest rate increase at the November meeting.
hawkish	While discussing current inflation, the Council analysed the causes of the annual growth of consumer prices in November running above the NBP inflation target of 2.5% and exceeding the upper limit for deviations from the target set at 3.5%.
hawkish	Some members of the Council indicated that the rise in current CPI inflation was likely to boost inflation expectations.
hawkish	It was pointed out that rising inflation expectations might add to wage pressure.
hawkish	Moreover, some discussants argued that the rise in current inflation ? unlike in 2004 ? took place amidst strong economic growth and tight labour market which increased the likelihood of rising inflation expectations and of the so-called second-round effects.
hawkish	It was indicated that wage growth continued to exceed labour productivity growth, which was conducive to growing inflationary pressure.
hawkish	Some members of the Council believed that counteracting inflation risk within the monetary policy horizon would require interest rates to be raised at the Council meeting in December.
hawkish	Those members assessed that the rise in net core inflation and the continuing high growth of food prices will probably result in CPI inflation remaining above the inflation target throughout 2008.
hawkish	Other members, however, emphasized that a rise in CPI inflation might boost inflation expectations.
hawkish	In the opinion of some members of the Council, tight labour market reflected in the rapid decline in unemployment rate and a swift labour demand growth would not diminish significantly in the time to come due to economic emigration of Poles and persisting differences in the level of wages between Poland and Western European countries.
hawkish	While assessing the outlook for economic growth in Poland, it was pointed out that the growth of retail sales and industrial output in February were significantly higher then expected.
hawkish	When analysing the situation in the labour market, it was pointed out that the data on wages in the enterprise sector in February were higher then expected, and the growth of employment remained at a high level.
hawkish	Some Council members argued that, apart from high wage growth, domestic demand may be additionally driven by growth in credit aggregates, including consumption loans granted to households, which continued at a high level. 
hawkish	While discussing the interest rate decision, the Council assessed that the continuing high growth of wages and employment, along with the possibility of increased inflation expectations resulting from higher current inflation and the expected further increase of administered prices, both pointed to the risk of inflation remaining above the inflation target in the medium term.
hawkish	It was emphasized that inflation remaining above the upper limit for deviations from the NBP?s inflation target set at 3.5% was mainly the result of the previously observed rise in food prices and increases in administered prices.
hawkish	While addressing the situation in the labour market, some members of the Council pointed out that strong growth in wages continued to be the major risk factor for price stability
hawkish	They assessed that ? similarly to many other countries ? the period of heightened inflation may prove longer than expected so far.
hawkish	In the discussion about the labour market situation, it was reasoned that high wage growth and growing unit labour costs continued to be major risk factors to inflation in the medium term.
hawkish	It was also emphasized that the recent heated public debate about the price growth contributed to boosting inflation expectations.
hawkish	At the same time, these members pointed out that the high growth of broad money supply observed for the last several years might indicate the persistence of inflationary pressure in the economy.
hawkish	On the other hand, attention was paid to a still high growth in consumption loans.
hawkish	While discussing the current inflation, some members of the Council also pointed out that inflation remaining above the upper limit for deviations from the inflation target was mainly connected with the previously effected increases in regulated prices and rising unprocessed food prices.
hawkish	While addressing the situation in the domestic economy, it was pointed out that some positive signals regarding the economic activity appeared recently.
hawkish	On the other hand, the majority of economic sentiment indicators rose, which may indicate an improvement in the economic situation in the months to come.
hawkish	It was indicated that the inflation rise in July 2009 to 3.6%, i.e. above the NBP?s inflation target of 2.5% and slightly above the upper limit for deviations from the target set at 3.5%.
hawkish	Other Council members emphasised that a gradual recovery of economic growth should translate into higher demand, while the negative output gap might close up earlier than anticipated.
hawkish	While addressing forecasts, those members argued that inflation in 2009 Q2 and Q3 proved markedly higher than expected in the June projection.
hawkish	While discussing the outlook for domestic economic growth, it was assessed that the Polish economy had already entered the phase of recovery, which was confirmed, among other things, by increasing industrial output growth and very good financial results of enterprises in 2009 Q3.
hawkish	Other Council members, however, pointed to the rising inflation expectations in the United States.
hawkish	While addressing the outlook for economic growth in Poland, the majority of the Council argued that GDP growth in subsequent quarters may be stronger than previously assessed. 
hawkish	In the opinion of those Council members, this may indicate that a time might be approaching for considering a change in the assessment of probabilities of inflation in the medium term running below or above the inflation target and, possibly, the subsequent monetary policy tightening.
hawkish	Additionally, high growth in Asian economies whose demand might constitute a factor stimulating recovery in the economies being Poland?s major trading partners was stressed.
hawkish	On the other hand, some Council members emphasised that in certain developed economies the interest rate hiking cycle had already begun. 
hawkish	While analysing the situation in the Polish economy, a slight upward revision of GDP in 2009 Q4 and better than expected data on industrial output and retail sales were indicated.
hawkish	While analysing the situation in the Polish economy, it was highlighted that the persistent upward trend in industrial output, further increase of economic indicators, and improving situation on the labour market confirmed the continued recovery.
hawkish	They emphasized that the balance of risks for short-term NBP inflation forecasts was asymmetrical and pointed to a greater risk of higher inflation than would follow up from the central path. 
hawkish	They argued that CPI inflation might run at a level higher than that suggested by the central projection path.
hawkish	Some members of the Council emphasized, however, that changes in VAT rates might boost inflation expectations.
hawkish	While discussing the outlook for economic activity in Poland, some Council members assessed that both the available forecasts and the incoming data, including data on GDP in 2010 Q2 and on industrial output and retail sales in 2010 Q3, suggested that GDP continued on an upward trend.
hawkish	While referring to the labour market situation, it was pointed out that the number of the employed in the economy increased in 2010 Q2 and employment in the enterprise sector continued to rise gradually in Q3.
hawkish	While analysing the current situation in the real economy and the outlook for economic growth in Poland, fast growth in industrial output, retail sales and exports was pointed out. 
hawkish	In the opinion of those Council members, the improving labour market situation, including the relatively fast employment growth in the enterprise sector, would act towards further consumption growth.
hawkish	The members of the Council pointed out that in the short term inflation would be driven by rising food prices, caused by supply-side shocks in the country and abroad, changes in indirect tax rates and the rise in administered prices, primarily energy prices. 
hawkish	In the opinion of some Council members, after the expiry of factors temporarily raising inflation, in the absence of monetary policy tightening, inflation was likely to remain at an elevated level due to the expected increase in domestic wage and demand pressures, including a likely acceleration in unit labour cost growth and the inflation rise abroad.
hawkish	As a result, over the monetary policy transmission horizon, wage pressure in the economy may be expected to intensify. 
hawkish	Some Council members pointed to the fact that international institutions had increased their forecasts of Poland?s GDP growth for 2011.
hawkish	They also pointed to the relatively high level of production capacity utilisation, which should translate into revival of enterprises? investment demand, particularly considering their very good financial situation.
hawkish	Some members of the Council indicated that the expansionary monetary policy, including nonstandard measures undertaken by major central banks, coupled with improved sentiment in the financial markets contributed to a strong rise in commodity prices in the global markets, thus intensifying long-term tendencies. 
hawkish	Members of the Council pointed to a gradual acceleration of economic growth in Poland which in 2010 Q3 exceeded expectations.
hawkish	While addressing bank lending, some members of the Council pointed out that monthly increases in housing loans to households were close to the ones observed during the credit boom of 2007-2008, and the annual growth in those loans markedly exceeded disposable income growth considered neutral with respect to the risk of rising inflation.
hawkish	While discussing the level of interest rates in the Polish economy, members of the Council assessed that the consolidation of the economic recovery abroad and the acceleration of economic growth in Poland, combined with further strong increases in global commodity prices and heightened inflation expectations, increased the risk of inflation running above the NBP's inflation target in the medium term.
hawkish	At the same time, some members of the Council assessed that likely continuation of the accommodative monetary policy in some major developed economies would act towards sustained high global liquidity, and, consequently, increased global inflationary pressure.
hawkish	Yet, the majority of the Council members argued that a marked rise in inflation expectations combined with a strong growth in commodity prices in the global markets created, in a situation of continuing economic recovery, a risk of persisting heightened inflation. 
hawkish	While discussing the NBP interest rate policy, members of the Council agreed that the current assessment of the outlook for economic growth and inflation justified the continuation of monetary policy tightening in a previously assumed scale. 
hawkish	While discussing inflationary developments, Council members stressed the fact that ? like in other countries ? heightened inflation had been largely driven by external factors, including rising global prices of energy commodities, which translated into higher prices of energy, and in particular into higher prices of fuels.
hawkish	According to few Council members, an additional risk to inflation in the short term is the likely rise in prices of services and fees that are at the discretion of local government units.
hawkish	In particular, favourable data on retail sales and improvement in leading business indicators, including a relatively high PMI, signalled steadily accelerating growth.
hawkish	August saw a slight decline in the registered unemployment rate (in seasonal adjusted terms) and a further growth in employment in the corporate sector (in monthly terms).
hawkish	Domestic demand, in turn, remained relatively robust, supported by a stable expansion in consumer demand and steeper growth in investment spending.
hawkish	It was estimated that economic activity was fuelled by sustained growth in domestic demand.
hawkish	While discussing the outlook for economic growth, most members of the Council assessed that GDP growth in the coming quarters would gradually accelerate with consumption and investment remaining its key drivers.
hawkish	It was pointed out that lending growth was accelerating, as economic activity in the euro area was recovering.
hawkish	It was also emphasized that GDP growth in 2015 Q1 had been higher than expected. 
hawkish	Moreover, some Council members pointed to the acceleration in wage growth in enterprises in the recent month.
hawkish	Retail sales data were judged to indicate sustained consumer demand expansion, at a rate close to that observed in the previous quarters.
hawkish	Consumption growth continues to be supported by rising employment and robust consumer sentiment.
hawkish	The main driver of economic growth is steadily increasing consumer demand, supported by gradual improvement in the labour market, favourable household sentiment.
hawkish	It was observed that forecasts for global economic growth had recently been revised upwards and pointed to its acceleration in 2017.
hawkish	Economic growth will be supported by expected rise in investment resulting from higher inflows of EU funds, amid a steady rise in consumption.
hawkish	It was indicated that the recovery in international trade was supporting economic conditions in the euro area, where economic growth remained higher than in 2016.
hawkish	Turning to developments in Poland's real economy, the Council members pointed out that annual GDP growth had accelerated to 4.9% in 2017 Q3, i.e. it was higher than envisaged in the projection.
hawkish	Economic activity will still be supported by stable consumption growth, accompanied with a further rise in investment growth rate.
hawkish	At the same time, some Council members drew attention to the upside risks to inflation.
hawkish	Discussing the developments in Poland?s real economy, it was emphasised that the 2018 Q2 GDP data pointed to continued robust economic growth. 
hawkish	It was noted that activity growth in 2018 Q4 had continued to be driven by consumption, which had been rising further ? albeit at a slightly slower pace than in previous quarters ? fuelled by increasing employment and wages as well as very strong consumer sentiment.
hawkish	Certain Council members argued that should a sharp rise in inflationary pressure appear in the coming quarters, it might be advisable to consider raising NBP interest rates in the second half of 2021.
hawkish	Some Council members underlined that in the United States the annual inflation rate had exceeded 4% and was the highest for a dozen or so years, while core inflation was the highest for three decades.
hawkish	It was observed that the global rebound in activity was contributing to the rise in prices of many commodities, including energy commodities and metal prices, which were currently significantly higher than a year earlier.
hawkish	The Council members recognised that, in order to decrease inflation to the NBP target in the medium term, NBP interest rates should be raised.
hawkish	At the same time, these Council members judged that the ongoing economic recovery, including demand stimulated by rising household income, had also added to the price growth.
hawkish	As a result, in many economies, including the euro area and the United States, inflation was reaching highest levels in decades. 
hawkish	When analysing the inflation outlook, the Council members pointed out that in 2022 the annual price growth of consumption goods and services would remain at an elevated level.
hawkish	Inflation forecasts for the coming quarters had been also revised upwards, which, in the Council?s opinion, indicated the risk that the impact of the pandemic shock on inflationary processes would be more persistent than previously assessed. 
hawkish	However, the majority of the Council members were of the opinion that amidst further recovery in domestic economic activity and expected continuation of the favourable labour market conditions, as well as probably more lasting impact of the external shocks on price growth, a risk of inflation running above the NBP inflation target in the monetary policy transmission horizon persisted.
hawkish	Some Council members argued that the data on the consumption of households in 2010 Q2 and retail sales indicated that the economic growth, which had so far been mainly reinforced by growing external demand, was increasingly supported by domestic factors.
hawkish	It was stressed that a rise in inflation had been driven by the previously observed zloty exchange rate depreciation and that exchange rate developments continued to be the main risk factor for price stability.
hawkish	Other Council members stressed that in the past few quarters core inflation remained at an elevated level.
hawkish	Moreover, they assessed that the growth in unit labour costs should be constrained by the continuation of high productivity growth related to increased investment outlays, enterprises? restructuring and improving quality of the labour force.
hawkish	The Council members pointed to the need to take measures aimed at enhancing macroprudential policy, including the development by the central bank and other institutions responsible for the financial system of new instruments mitigating systemic risk in the financial sector.
hawkish	While referring to domestic economic activity, Council members noted that GDP data had confirmed the continuation of a gradual recovery in 2013 Q3.
hawkish	Furthermore, the Council maintained its assessment that the gradual improvement in economic conditions was likely to continue over the coming quarters, while inflation pressure would remain limited.
hawkish	While justifying this decision, Council members argued that in the coming quarters price growth would rise slowly, which would be driven by stable economic growth and the gradual closing of the output gap.
neutral	While discussing the changes in the environment of the Polish economy, it was pointed out that considerable uncertainty persisted as to the assessment what effects the turmoil in international financial markets would have on the outlook for growth and inflation in the global and Polish economies. 
neutral	During the meeting the Monetary Policy Council discussed the outlook for inflation in the context of the past, current and, primarily, expected economic situation.
neutral	The Council paid considerable attention to the prospects of economic growth.
neutral	The Council paid significant attention to the situation in the labour market and its impact on inflation outlook.
neutral	Thus, they were convinced that a more comprehensive assessment of the scale of wage pressure strengthening will only be possible after more labour market data are released.
neutral	The members of the Council also discussed the impact of the zloty exchange rate on inflation.
neutral	They argued that the wage growth acceleration does not necessarily have to lead to inflation growth due to the very good financial standing of enterprises which makes it possible for them to partially absorb wage increases without the need to raise their prices.
neutral	During the meeting, the Council also addressed the April projection of inflation and GDP presented by NBP analysts and based on the ECMOD model.
neutral	The projection is one of the inputs to the decision-making process on NBP interest rates.
neutral	The discussion revealed three different assessments of the April projection.
neutral	Some Council members accepted the inflation outlook outlined in the April projection as probable.
neutral	In the opinion of some Council members, the assessment of the balance of risks for future inflation did not provide clear grounds for tightening the monetary policy at the present meeting.
neutral	The Council discussed the appropriate way in which this decision should be communicated to the public.
neutral	The Council addressed the prospects of economic growth and their impact on inflation. 
neutral	In this context, the influence of fundamental factors as well as trends in the international financial markets was considered.
neutral	At its meeting the Council also discussed developments in monetary and credit aggregates.
neutral	During the meeting the Council also discussed the levels of real interest rates and their impact on inflation.
neutral	They therefore assessed that the current level of interest rates probably does not prevent widening of the output gap and rise in inflationary pressure.
neutral	In this context, Council members exchanged their opinions concerning the future path of the NBP interest rates.
neutral	The Council kept the interest rates unchanged: the reference rate at 4.25%, the lombard rate at 5.75%, the deposit rate at 2.75% and the rediscount rate at 4.50%.
neutral	Moreover, those members emphasised that a rise in unit labour costs does not have to lead to inflation growth, as the increase in competition connected, among other things, with the globalisation processes reduces enterprises? pricing power and, thus, their ability to pass the rising costs onto customers.
neutral	They pointed out that, despite a significant risk of a fiscal policy loosening, at present it is difficult to assess the impact of this policy on inflation in the medium term.  
neutral	In this context, the influence of fundamental factors as well as trends in the international financial markets was considered, including, among others, interest rate disparity, current account balance, outlook for economic growth, inflow of foreign direct investment, EU funds and transfers of earnings made by economic migrants as well as global liquidity and investment strategies of world financial market participants.
neutral	In the opinion of some Council members, the assessment of the balance of risks for future inflation did not provide clear grounds for tightening the monetary policy at the current meeting.
neutral	In their opinion, the level of unit labour costs in Poland was currently relatively low, which resulted in very good financial results of enterprises allowing them to absorb growing labour costs without the need to raise their prices. 
neutral	Council members discussed the level of interest rates and the impact of monetary policy tightening on economic growth.
neutral	Council members could not agree as to the impact of the April and June interest rate increases on the exchange rate of the zloty.
neutral	Additionally, the same members suggested that it was probable that Poland would join the ERM II in 2010.
neutral	The Council kept the interest rates unchanged.
neutral	Some Council members pointed out that both the current and forecast inflation were close to the inflation target, while core net inflation had remained for a longer period close to the lower limit for deviations from the inflation target.
neutral	In view of the above factors, it was recommended to remain cautious, abstain from the decision to change interest rates at the August meeting and adopt a wait and see approach, following the example of some other central banks.
neutral	The members of the Council also devoted a lot of attention to public finance situation. 
neutral	In the Council?s assessment, in the conditions of increased uncertainty associated with the turmoil in international financial markets, the balance of risks for future inflation pointed to the necessity of a monetary policy tightening.
neutral	It was emphasised that the share of wage costs in total costs remained at a low and stable level, which meant that enterprises would not have to increase their prices in response to wage growth acceleration.
neutral	In the Council?s assessment, in the medium term the probability of inflation running above the inflation target had decreased to a certain degree due to the previously implemented monetary policy tightening and thus it was not necessary to change the interest rates at that meeting.
neutral	Moreover, the discussants pointed out that the situation in international financial markets had stabilised to some extent.
neutral	The Council kept the interest rates unchanged.
neutral	In this context, some Council members pointed to the need to appropriately coordinate the fiscal and monetary policies in the period preceding Poland?s accession to the euro area.
neutral	At the meeting, members of the Council discussed the usefulness of the so-called Taylor rule in monetary policy.
neutral	In this context they pointed at problems of correct specification of this rule and the uncertainty of the estimates of natural interest rate and potential output growth for Poland.
neutral	The Council also discussed an optimal communication policy of the central bank?s decision-making body with the environment with a view to influencing the financial markets expectations as to the future monetary policy.
neutral	In this context, a lot of attention was paid to the current macroeconomic situation and monetary policy in some small open economies.
neutral	The members of the Council emphasised that the assessment of the NBP?s interest rates level consistent with ensuring price stability in the medium term would depend on the data to be released in the coming months.
neutral	Attention was also paid to the fact that no further interest rate cuts were implemented by central banks of Central and Eastern Europe.
neutral	At the same time, some members of the Council pointed out that the developments of HIPC inflation in Poland against the reference value for price stability criterion in the coming years would largely depend upon changes in regulated prices.
neutral	The discussion at the meeting focused on the situation in the credit market and in the banking sector as well as on the outlook for economic growth and inflation in Poland and abroad.
neutral	Members of the Council agreed that current inflation developments, uncertainty about the prospects of economic recovery in Poland and abroad and uncertainty about the situation in the public finance and its impact on inflation justified keeping the NBP interest rates unchanged at the current meeting.
neutral	The Council also analysed the impact of the NBP?s interest rates on long-term interest rates. 
neutral	While addressing the situation in Poland, the members of the Council pointed out that the data on the domestic economic climate were ambiguous.
neutral	In the opinion of those Council members, the monetary policy should account for shifts in profit margins resulting from the business cycle.
neutral	While considering the decision on the interest rates, the Council assessed that the information on economic developments released since the last MPC meeting justified keeping the rates unchanged at the current meeting.
neutral	Some members of the Council believed that available data ? including higher than expected GDP growth in 2009 Q2 and inflation remaining above the target and above the June projection ? as well as further improvement in the outlook for economic activity justified the assessment that the probabilities of inflation running above and below the inflation target in the medium term were roughly equal.
neutral	While considering the decision on interest rates, the Council concluded that the information on the economic situation released since the last meeting warranted keeping the interest rates unchanged at the current meeting.
neutral	In the assessment of some Council members balanced risks to future inflation should indicate that the interest rates in the coming months would remain unchanged, which does not rule out the possibility of their adjustment in case of developments that would significantly affect the outlook for inflation and economic growth.
neutral	The majority of Council members judged the probability of inflation running below or above the inflation target to be balanced in the medium term.
neutral	The Council set the discount rate at 4.00% on an annual basis. 
neutral	Other Council members argued that inflation expectations in Poland are adaptive in nature, and so they are greatly dependent on past inflation, which should be taken into consideration while interpreting their changes.
neutral	The Council discussed the conditions to be fulfilled for Poland to join the euro area.
neutral	Other members of the Council argued, however, that the uncertainty related to macroeconomic developments in the global economy, and in particular, in the euro area, does not allow to assess clearly whether the risk for inflation in the medium term running above the inflation target had considerably increased.
neutral	While discussing the current level of interest rates in Poland, it was assessed that the uncertainty concerning the situation in the external environment and its impact on the Polish economy, including the zloty exchange rate developments, justified keeping the NBP interest rates unchanged.
neutral	Referring to inflation developments, some members of the Council pointed out that according to the available forecasts, inflation was running close to the NBP inflation target in the monetary policy horizon.
neutral	While considering external conditions the Council members pointed to the continuation of moderate economic activity abroad.
neutral	While analysing the developments of monetary and credit aggregates, some Council members pointed out that M3 growth was still moderate, similarly to the growth of lending to the private sector, which resulted, on the one hand, from stable growth in lending to households and, on the other hand, from the lack of revival in lending to the corporate sector.
neutral	While discussing the outlook for inflation in Poland, the Council addressed the results of the inflation projection based on the NECMOD model and other forecasts.
neutral	Some members of the Council also addressed changes in the external environment of the Polish economy driven by the financial crisis, which were likely to impact the developments of the equilibrium interest rate in Poland.
neutral	Some members of the Council emphasized that although the coming months were likely to bring a further rise in CPI inflation due to factors independent of domestic monetary policy such as increases in most VAT rates, inflation might be expected to fall in the second half of 2011.
neutral	With regard to the developments in Poland?s real economy, it was pointed out that GDP growth was likely to remain close to the previous year?s level.
neutral	Those Council members stated that wage growth in enterprises remained moderate, especially against the background of labour productivity growth, and was consistent with inflation stabilising at the inflation target.
neutral	At the same time, the majority of Council members indicated that the substantial tightening of monetary policy implemented since the beginning of 2011 should enable inflation to return to the target in the medium term, and further tightening of monetary policy would be justified should the prospects of inflation returning to the target deteriorate.
neutral	The Council assessed that recently the balance of risks for inflation has become more balanced, adding that the current evaluation of the inflation and growth outlook for Poland did not imply a need to cut the NBP interest rates.
neutral	It was indicated that the stabilisation of monetary policy parameters is conducive, particularly given increased uncertainty, to maintaining macroeconomic stability.
neutral	The Council also discussed the long-term challenges to economic policy. 
neutral	In this context, it was still emphasized that the incoming data on economic activity and inflationary processes in Poland in the coming months, as well as the NBP March projection, would be helpful in assessing the outlook for medium-term growth and inflation.
neutral	On the other hand, few members of the Council indicated that considering the NBP?s March projection of inflation and its balance of risks, in mid-2013 inflation should come close to the target.
neutral	While addressing inflation expectations, it was emphasised that although one-year ahead inflation forecasts by financial sector analysts were consistent with the NBP?s inflation target, expectations of households and enterprises were largely based on current inflation.
neutral	According to those Council members, current or forecast macroeconomic situation did not justify interest rate cuts.
neutral	Some Council members pointed out that the current interest rates level might be appropriate to enable inflation returning to the target over the next few quarters, while interest rate cuts amidst continuing weak economic climate abroad might have limited impact on the domestic economic activity.
neutral	The motion did not pass.
neutral	While analysing inflation developments, the Council members pointed to further decline in CPI inflation which went down to 2.4% in December 2012, i.e. to the level consistent with the NBP inflation target of 2.5%.
neutral	A few Council members indicated that considering the already implemented monetary policy easing as well as expected gradual improvement in business conditions in the second half of 2013, the current cycle of NBP interest rate cuts might be approaching a pause or an end.
neutral	They also stressed that as monetary policy transmission mechanism was characterised by considerable time lags, interest rate cuts should not be expected to translate immediately into lending and economic growth.
neutral	At the same time, Council members recognized that the findings of the March NBP projection would enable a more comprehensive assessment of medium-term outlook for inflation and economic growth.
neutral	Furthermore, the Council maintained its assessment that the NBP interest rates should be kept unchanged for a longer period of time, i.e. at least until the end of the third quarter of 2014.
neutral	Some Council members assessed that the economic growth could stay close to previous quarters.
neutral	While discussing business conditions in Poland's external environment, Council members pointed out that global activity growth remained moderate and varied considerably across the regions.
neutral	While discussing monetary policy abroad, Council members underlined that the tapering of quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve was occurring against the background of the ECB stepping up its monetary expansion.
neutral	Other Council members emphasized the absence of imbalances in the domestic economy, pointing to a stable situation in the real estate market, a relatively low private and public debts, a small deficit on the current account and a safe level of Poland's foreign indebtedness.
neutral	However, these members assessed that the most likely scenario was a stabilisation of interest rates.
neutral	While discussing interest rates, the Council assessed that they should remain unchanged.
neutral	The Council members confirmed their assessment that ? given the available data and forecasts ? the current level of interest rates helped to keep the Polish economy on a sustainable growth path and to maintain macroeconomic stability.
neutral	Council members also argued that a stabilisation of interest rates ensured room for their adjustment in the case of shocks adversely affecting domestic economic situation and price developments. 
neutral	However, these Council members indicated that, in light of the data available at the time of the meeting, stabilisation of the interest rates in the following quarters was the most likely scenario.
neutral	It was assessed that global economic growth remained moderate.
neutral	While discussing developments in Poland?s real economy, attention was drawn to the preliminary release of GDP data for 2016, which indicated that the annual GDP growth rate in 2016 Q4 had been close to that recorded a quarter earlier.
neutral	However, certain Council members pointed out that despite better economic conditions in the euro area, growth in this economy remained relatively weak.
neutral	The Council assessed that, despite favourable economic conditions and good labour market conditions, inflationary pressure remained limited and there were no imbalances building up in the economy.
neutral	 At the same time, available forecasts indicate that inflation will remain moderate in the coming quarters.
neutral	Therefore, in the Council's assessment, the risk of inflation running persistently above the target in the medium term was limited.
neutral	The majority of the Council members assessed that stabilisation of the NBP interest rates was likely in the following quarters, since ? given the available information ? it had been helping to keep the Polish economy on a sustainable growth path and maintain macroeconomic balance. 
neutral	While discussing price developments abroad, it was emphasised that despite the ongoing global recovery, inflation abroad had remained moderate.
neutral	Council members also discussed the size and structure of savings in the economy.
neutral	The Council judged that ? given the available information ? in the coming years inflation would run close to the inflation target.
neutral	The majority of the Council members judged that in the light of current information inflation in the next two years would be running close to the inflation target.
neutral	While discussing price developments in the world economy, it was noted that despite the global recovery, inflation abroad remained moderate due to the persistently weak domestic inflationary pressure in many countries.
neutral	At the same time, in line with available forecasts, in the monetary policy transmission horizon inflation will remain close to the target.
neutral	However, most Council members emphasised that in line with the November NBP forecast ? based on conservative assumptions on the scale of energy price increases ? inflation should remain within a band for deviations from the NBP inflation target.
neutral	The majority of the Council members expressed the opinion that, taking into account current information, interest rates were also likely to remain stable in the coming quarters.
neutral	At the meeting, the Council also discussed current and expected inflation developments.
dovish	The NBR Board has decided to adjust its broad monetary conditions to the new context by lowering the monetary policy rate to 8.0 percent per annum from 8.75 percent, by pursuing an adequate control of liquidity via open-market operations in line with financial market conditions and by leaving unchanged the minimum reserve requirement ratios.
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic indicators confirms that disinflation continued, faster than it had been forecasted, with the annual inflation rate falling to 3.66 percent in March versus 4.87 percent in December, due to a slower advance in administered prices and a reduction of volatile prices.
dovish	Statistical data confirm the continuation of disinflation and the attainment of NBR's 2006 objective - with year-on-year inflation falling to 4.87 percent in December, below the 5.0 percent target.
dovish	The recent developments in macroeconomic indicators show a disinflation process consistent with the aim to attain this year's inflation target, a mild slowdown of economic growth dynamics under the negative impact from agriculture as well as a persistent widening of the current account deficit.
dovish	Core inflation, excluding the effects of excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, dropped further - to 2.65 percent year-on-year in June from 2.7 percent in the month before and 3.0 percent in December 2006 - as broad monetary conditions remained restrictive against the background of a more pronounced appreciation of the leu.
dovish	The broader analysis of economic developments shows a relative slowdown of economic growth, attributable to the negative supply-side shock triggered by farming sector output, with consumption remaining at unsustainable levels, as also revealed by the persistent worsening of Romania's external deficit.
dovish	According to statistical data, year-on-year inflation rate slowed faster than forecast, to stand at 3.81 percent in February versus 4.01 percent in the previous month, 4.87 percent in December 2006 and 8.49 percent in February 2006.
dovish	The NBR Board will continue to vigilantly monitor monetary and macroeconomic developments, standing ready to adjust its instrument settings in order to ensure the maintenance of disinflation on the projected trajectory and consolidate European Union convergence, relying also on the support from other components of the macroeconomic policy mix.
dovish	Statistical estimates point to a consolidation of the disinflation process which is projected to be reflected in a slowdown of the average annual inflation rate to 5.0 percent in the coming period.
dovish	In light of the available data, the NBR Board has decided to lower the monetary policy rate to 7.5 percent per annum from 8.0 percent.
dovish	The cut in the monetary policy rate to 7.5 percent also translates into a narrower gap between its level and the effective rate on sterilization operations.
dovish	The analysis of the most recent trends in macroeconomic indicators shows a continuation of the disinflation process, a relatively slower economic growth and a widening of the current account deficit against the background of persistently high dynamics of domestic absorption.
dovish	The short-term inflation outlook has worsened due to a prolonged impact of drought on food prices and uncertainties related to the evolution of leu's exchange rate given the difficulty of assessing the duration and the effects of the recent world financial markets turbulences.
dovish	The inflation outlook reveals a slowdown trend in the year-on-year inflation rate starting August as a result of a base effect as well as of the maintenance of restrictive monetary conditions.
dovish	The return of inflation to a downward path reflects tighter broad monetary conditions, a favourable base effect, as well as lower prices of fuel and some food products and cheaper telephony rates.
dovish	The inflation rate dropped to an annual 7.3 percent in September from 8.02 percent in the previous month, after the peak of 9.04 percent in July.
dovish	The inflation outlook reveals a slowdown trend in the year-on-year inflation rate.
dovish	This occurred as an effect of constraints related to higher external financing costs amid marked volatility on world financial markets, of a continued trend of gradual reduction in excess liquidity in the banking system and of the central bank shifting towards a creditor position in its relation with credit institutions.
dovish	The analysis of the latest macroeconomic developments shows a continuation of the disinflation process and a slowdown of economic growth amid lower investment expansion, especially in the construction sector, diminished industrial output and reduced export orders. 
dovish	The annual increase in real terms of credit to the private sector has moderated under the impact of reduced access of banks to external financing, of a gradual reduction of the excess liquidity in the banking sector, as well as of increased prudence of banks amid growing uncertainties related to the effects of the global crisis on the Romanian economy.
dovish	The effects of the global financial and economic crisis are increasingly reflected by the reduction of both exports and external financing, an increased volatility on the domestic foreign exchange market, in line with regional trends and by lack of investor risk appetite.
dovish	Data analysis show that the impact of these developments is already seen in a slowdown of credit to the private sector with knock-on effects on economic growth, while a high degree of uncertainty regarding their magnitude still persists.
dovish	The perspectives shows a continuation of the disinflation process, though the outlook is gripped by the persistence of major uncertainties related to the volatility of the internal and external macroeconomic developments.
dovish	In the monetary area it is worth noting a relative stagnation of intermediation in the context of a significant slowdown of credit to the private sector.
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic and financial indicators shows a significant slowdown of economic growth against the background of deepening of the global crisis as well as the ongoing, rapid adjustment of the external imbalance, which however has yet to reach sustainable longer-term levels.
dovish	The faster-than-expected adjustment of the external deficit is correlated with the steeper decline of domestic economic activity amid the effects of the global economic and financial crisis.
dovish	The NBR Board has also decided to cut the minimum reserve requirements ratios on leu-denominated liabilities of credit institutions to 15 percent from 18 percent and on foreign currency-denominated liabilities to 35 percent from 40 percent
dovish	The perspectives show a continuation of the disinflation process, though the outlook is still influenced by the developments in the international crisis and the persistence of significant structural rigidities of the domestic economy. 
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic indicators developments reveals a consolidation of disinflation with a certain lag, a persistent economic contraction and an ongoing significant adjustment of the external deficit, along with a worsening of foreign investors? perception regarding the Romanian economy amid heightened tensions in the domestic political field.
dovish	Meanwhile, the spread between interbank money market rates and the monetary policy rate widened in the context of a heightened impact on the money market of the substantial budget deficit financing needs for the last quarter of this year.
dovish	The analysis of the most recent statistics show a slowdown of economic growth as a result of reduction in both exports and external financing against the background of deepening global economic and financial crisis.
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic indicators developments reveals a temporary stagnation of disinflation in the context of a consolidation of the slowdown in adjusted CORE2 inflation amid a persistently severe economic contraction, along with a relative improvement of foreign investors? perception regarding the Romanian economy, given the softening tensions in the domestic political field.
dovish	In the monetary area it is worth noting the continued slowdown in real terms of the annual dynamics of credit to the private sector, especially of the leu-denominated component, amid still weak demand for loans against the background of the recession.
dovish	The analysis of developments in macroeconomic indicators reveals a persistent deficit of aggregate demand.
dovish	The outlook indicates the continuation of disinflation is set to continue. 
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic developments show the resumption of the disinflation process amid a drop in adjusted CORE 21 annual inflation rate and an appreciation of the leu.
dovish	At the same time, aggregate demand deficit and the declining annual lending to the private sector both persist.
dovish	The updated forecast shows a continuation of disinflation but also a relative heightening of domestic risks related to the fulfilment of fiscal and incomes policy objectives in the public sector and of uncertainties related to developments in external markets amid recent tensions regarding the public finance crisis in Greece. 
dovish	The increase in annual inflation rate has nevertheless been marginally lower than that projected in the most recent forecasting exercise, reflecting a relatively slower pass-through of the VAT hike to consumer prices, given the persistence of the negative output gap.
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic developments shows that the annual dynamics of indicators relevant for the trends in the domestic demand stayed in the negative territory.
dovish	The prolonged real negative annual dynamics of credit to the private sector is worth noting.
dovish	At the same time, both real annual dynamics of other leading indicators of domestic demand and the evolution in real terms of credit to the private sector remained in negative territory.
dovish	The NBR Board decided to lower the minimum reserve requirements ratio on foreign currency-denominated liabilities with residual maturities of up to two years.
dovish	The favourable trends in volatile food prices combined with the fading out of the impact of July 2010 VAT rate hike are forecast to trigger faster disinflation in the coming months.
dovish	However, the negative output gap still persists while the revival of lending to the private sector, mainly centered on corporates, remains modest also in the context of heightened risks related to eurozone sovereign debt crisis and signals regarding a relative slowdown in the eurozone recovery.
dovish	The reduction in the annual inflation rate was mainly attributed to the fall in volatile food prices over June-September and the fading-out of most of the first-round effect of the VAT rate hike.
dovish	Nevertheless, the negative output gap is persisting, and the revival of loans to the private sector is still modest, also as a result of banks? pro-cyclical behaviour reflecting uncertainties and risks related to the sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone and the mixed signals on world economy recovery.
dovish	The annual inflation rate slid for the third consecutive month to reach 4.25 percent in August versus 7.93 percent in June, amid a steep reduction in volatile food prices and the gradual fading-out of the first-round effect of the VAT hike in July 2010.
dovish	For the months ahead, disinflation is envisaged to consolidate, along with the downward adjustment of inflation expectations against the background of maintaining a prudent monetary policy stance.
dovish	They also reconfirm the prospects of a slowdown in both headline and core inflation rates, along with the downward adjustment in inflation expectations, in the coming months.
dovish	Looking at domestic developments, statistical indicators reveal the persistence of negative output gap.
dovish	The fading-out of the VAT hike impact and the relatively favourable development in food prices have contributed to a rapid slowdown in inflation.
dovish	The inflation outlook reconfirms a slowdown in both headline and core inflation in the forthcoming period.
dovish	The analysis of the latest developments in macroeconomic indicators points to a halt in the upward trend of the annual inflation rate, as well as to a slow recovery in Romania?s economy amid the recession in euro area economies.
dovish	The feeble dynamics of industrial production and retail trade, as well as the protracted euro area recession entailing adverse effects on Romanian exports suggest the persistence of the negative output gap.
dovish	The statistical data suggest a near stalemate in economic activity in 2012 from the previous year amid a drought-induced drop in agricultural production and protracted euro area recession, which hurt Romania?s net exports and industrial output.
dovish	The NBR?s current assessments reconfirm the prospects for the annual inflation rate to follow a downward trend, albeit remaining outside the variation band in the forthcoming months, with the persistence of the negative output gap being the main disinflation driver.
dovish	The annual adjusted CORE2 inflation rate 1 further stayed on a downward trend, falling to 3.0 percent in March from 3.25 percent in December 2012.
dovish	Monthly increases in consumer prices in February and March 2013 stood at historically low levels, reflecting the reduction in inflation expectations.
dovish	The GDP remains below potential owing to the evolution of its quarterly growth rate.
dovish	The NBR Board has decided to narrow the symmetrical corridor defined by interest rates on the NBR?s standing facilities to +/-3 percentage points from +/-4 percentage points. 
dovish	These decisions are aimed at further strengthening the transmission of the policy rate signal, which will have a favourable impact on the credit market in domestic currency, by gradually cutting the costs related to new loans.
dovish	This outlook enables the gradual easing of the monetary policy stance, while effectively anchoring inflation expectations and duly monitoring domestic and global developments.
dovish	The decisions convey a positive signal to the banking system, the business community and households, by prompting a gradually downward trend in domestic currency lending costs and fostering economic activity.
dovish	Nevertheless, final consumption nearly stalled, while the real annual dynamics of loans to the private sector have stayed in negative territory.
dovish	The resumption in disinflation has enabled a new cycle of monetary policy easing, in the context of the central bank effectively anchoring inflation expectations and closely monitoring domestic and external developments.
dovish	The real annual dynamics of loans to the private sector are still in negative territory, despite a relative improvement in the developments in domestic currency loans.
dovish	This trend, in line with the central bank's forecasts in the latest Inflation Report, strengthens the favourable outlook for the annual inflation rate to fall below the 2.5 percent target in the forthcoming period.
dovish	In today's meeting, the NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, which foresees a decline in inflation rate to all-time lows in the first half of 2014, amid the ongoing transitory impact of this year's crops and the lower VAT rate for some bakery products.
dovish	The analysis of macroeconomic indicators points to further disinflation, as a result of the decline in volatile prices, particularly food prices, as well as of the persistent negative output gap and the significant improvement in inflation expectations.
dovish	 On the supply side, the bumper agricultural year and the industrial output made the largest contributions to economic growth.
dovish	However, the annual rate of change of total loans (in domestic and foreign currency) to the private sector remained in negative territory, despite the relatively improved performance of leu-denominated loans.
dovish	The risks associated with the medium-term inflation outlook are primarily related to foreign capital flow volatility, owing to cross-border deleveraging across the banking system and to the variability of investors? risk appetite also following the decisions of the major central banks across the globe.
dovish	Lending to the private sector saw however negative annual dynamics in real terms, despite a slightly improving trend in lei-denominated loans.
dovish	This development was further underpinned by fundamentals, namely the persistence of the negative output gap and the maintenance of inflation expectations inside the variation band of the target.
dovish	This could materialise amid the recent geopolitical and regional tensions, the ongoing cross-border deleveraging and restructuring of some Eurozone banking groups, as well as in the context of uncertainty surrounding the impact of possible monetary policy stance adjustments by major central banks worldwide.
dovish	The annual pace of economic growth witnessed a slowdown, owing primarily to the deceleration in domestic demand dynamics, largely attributable to the negative contribution of gross fixed capital formation.
dovish	On the supply side, most economic sectors reported a relatively less favourable performance than in the previous period, consisting either in slower annual growth rates (industry and services) or contractions in business volumes (construction).
dovish	Statistical data show the annual inflation rate remaining at low levels after the fading of the impact arising from the cut in the VAT rate for some bakery products.
dovish	The real annual dynamics of credit to the private sector remained in negative territory, against the background of the sharper contraction in foreign currency credit (stocks) and the ongoing operations to remove non-performing loans from credit institutions? balance sheets.
dovish	The NBR Board has decided to narrow the symmetrical corridor of interest rates on the NBR?s standing facilities around the policy rate.
dovish	The latest assessments reconfirm the prospects for the annual inflation rate to remain subdued over the months ahead, in the vicinity of historical lows.
dovish	The latest macroeconomic data underscore the inflation rate sticking to low levels, in line with central bank projections.
dovish	The analysis of the latest macroeconomic data points to a decline in the annual inflation rate, which followed a path lower than previously forecasted, due to the drop in volatile prices, subdued euro area inflation, the persistence of the negative output gap, and to the ongoing downward adjustment in inflation expectations.
dovish	However, the real annual dynamics of credit to the private sector remained in negative territory, against the background of the contraction in foreign currency credit (stocks) and the ongoing operations to remove non-performing loans from credit institutions? balance sheets.
dovish	The prospects for the inflation rate to drop to around nil in the following three to four quarters cause these monetary policy decisions to foster lending in a manner supportive of sustainable economic growth and, at the same time, to keep real deposit rates in positive territory.
dovish	The most recent assessments reconfirm the outlook for the annual inflation rate to enter and remain in negative territory over the short term, as a result of broadening the scope of the reduced VAT rate to all food items and public food services as of 1 June 2015, but also amid the narrowing of the negative output gap at a quicker pace and the rise in unit labour costs.
dovish	In November 2015, the aggregate consumer price level stood 1.1 percent lower than in the same year-earlier period. 
dovish	Interbank rates on the money market and bank rates continued to decrease to new historical lows
dovish	Less encouraging signals come from the slowing activity in the industrial and construction sectors, as well as from somewhat weaker confidence in the economy. 
dovish	On the external front, worth noting is the escalating uncertainty about the euro area economic recovery, stemming from the ongoing slowdown of the Chinese economy and of other major emerging economies, as well as from the geopolitical tensions, which is likely to pose risks to Romania?s economic growth.
dovish	It was noted that, after the pick-up seen in August, the annual inflation rate had witnessed a somewhat larger-than-anticipated drop in September, down to -0.57 percent, as a result of the large decline in prices for vegetables, eggs and fruit. 
dovish	First, it was noted that the projected annual inflation rate trajectory would stay in negative territory until end-2016 and then below the variation band of the target in the early months of 2017, at values almost similar to those previously forecasted. 
dovish	The ensuing downside risks to domestic inflation might materialise through both import prices and contractionary effects exerted on the cyclical position of the Romanian economy in the medium run.
dovish	When discussing recent developments in the economic activity, Board members pointed out the stronger-than-forecasted slowdown in third-quarter growth ? with annual GDP dynamics decelerating to 4.4 percent from 6 percent in Q2 ?, entailing a likely halt in the advance of excess aggregate demand during that period, contrary to expectations. 
dovish	At the same time, Board members also noted the persistence of downside risks to euro area economic growth, given the uncertainties associated with the 2017 election calendar and with the Brexit negotiations, as well as the challenges to the European banking system. 
dovish	Looking at economic activity, reference was made to the stronger-than-expected deceleration of GDP growth in 2016 Q3, given the slower increase in domestic demand, on account of the slowdown in household consumption and gross fixed capital formation.
dovish	It was concluded that the balance of risks to short-term evolution of administered prices was tilted to the downside.
dovish	Board members remarked that, in Q1, economic expansion had witnessed a stronger-than-anticipated loss of momentum in annual terms.
dovish	Looking at the cyclical position of the economy, Board members first remarked the strong slowdown in the economy?s rate of increase versus last year.
dovish	Board members noted that the annual adjusted CORE2 inflation rate would likely be stuck to a downtrend over the months ahead and would fall to 2.5 percent in December 2018, slightly below the previously-projected level, amid relatively heftier disinflationary influences from prices of some agri-food commodities.
dovish	It was observed that, in the first two months of 2018 Q4 overall, the advance in credit to the private sector had continued at a sustained pace, marginally above the Q3 average.
dovish	Board members made repeated reference to the increasingly clear signs of a worsening of the euro area and global economies and to the heightened uncertainties about their outlook, especially amid the trade war and Brexit, as well as to the reaction of major central banks at such a juncture.
dovish	As expected, the sizeable downward correction had owed mainly to the disinflationary base effects which, during that period, had strongly marked the dynamics of volatile and administered prices and, to a lesser extent, the change in tobacco product prices.
dovish	The downward correction had owed almost entirely to the decelerations seen in the prices of fuels and VFE, and, to a much lower extent, to declines in the change of tobacco product prices and administered prices, mainly ascribable to base effects and the influence from removing the special excise duty on motor fuels and from the unanticipated fall in the oil price.
dovish	The global economic picture had, however, started to worsen at a fast pace in mid-Q1, while the associated uncertainties had risen substantially, given the rapidly growing adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on production and global supply chains as well as on demand.
dovish	That had entailed a sudden worsening of the global financial market sentiment and the increase to extreme levels in the volatility of prices for all major asset classes.
dovish	Amid a broad-based sell-off, bond markets in the advanced economies had also been affected by episodes of heightened tensions and liquidity squeeze, while financial markets in emerging economies had seen substantial capital outflows. 
dovish	At the same time, also in a bid to appease financial market turmoil, major central banks, as well as central banks in emerging economies, including those in the region, had proceeded to change abruptly or strengthen the path of monetary policy via measures taken, also in emergency meetings, to ease the policy stance and improve the financing conditions for the economy.
dovish	Looking at the latest relevant statistical data, Board members agreed that the main macroeconomic developments had started to reflect the adverse effects of the coronavirus pandemic and the restrictive containment measures taken worldwide and countrywide.
dovish	Moreover, it was noted that the widespread lockdown on activity in numerous economic sectors starting with the second part of March, in an effort to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the pronounced drop in consumer demand, in parallel with the fall in external demand, were likely to trigger a severe contraction of the Romanian economy in Q2 and implicitly a sudden shift in its cyclical position from a significantly positive value to a strongly negative one.
dovish	It was shown that, in 2021, pronounced disinflationary influences were foreseen to come also from import prices, as well as from the base effects associated with the increases in prices of pigmeat and other agri-food commodities earlier this year.
dovish	The favourable liquidity picture, the decline in lending rates on new business following the successive policy rate cuts and the improvement in the evolution of lei-denominated loans create further prerequisites for the recovery of loans to the private sector. 
dovish	The growing uncertainties regarding global and European growth amid a worsened global risk appetite and heightened sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone are hindering the short-term outlook for the overall economic activity in Romania.
dovish	Recent developments in high-frequency indicators point to a standstill in economic activity in 2021 Q4, also in the context of the fourth pandemic wave, the energy crisis and supply bottlenecks, entailing the fall in annual GDP dynamics to a significantly lower value than that anticipated in November 2021.
hawkish	The most recent developments in macroeconomic indicators show the persistence of high dynamics of economic growth and productivity underpinned by investment and consumption expansion, the latter also triggering a widening of the current account deficit.
hawkish	Meanwhile, the increase in real monetary policy rate spread and the faster-than-anticipated appreciation of the leu, including as a result of stronger capital inflows amid favorable investor sentiment regarding emerging markets as well as in the context of Romania becoming an EU Member State, have led to tighter overall monetary conditions.
hawkish	Economic growth - supported by a solid rise in investment and, to a lesser extent, by an advance in consumption - has remained fast at 7.7 percent, while the persistence of excess demand has triggered a wider current account deficit.
hawkish	Wage dynamics has stayed high while the labour market has tightened.
hawkish	Year-on-year inflation climbed to 4.96 percent in August, close to the upper limit of this year's target band, due to a significant increase of food prices and a correction of the leu's exchange rate against the background of recent turbulences on the world financial markets.
hawkish	Wage dynamics stayed above productivity growth, emphasizing the risks of deteriorating external competitiveness and of labour cost-related inflationary pressures.
hawkish	In the monetary area, a revival of non-government credit dynamics is notable mainly due to the faster pace of foreign currency lending growth (foreign currency-denominated loans accounted for 50.6 percent of end-August overall non-government credit).
hawkish	Credit expansion has stayed alert in the context of renewed fast growth of foreign currency lending, which accounted for 51.5 percent of the end-September stock of non-government credit.
hawkish	The new forecast of the medium-term economic developments underscores heightened and more complex risks, especially those related to a rise in incomes insufficiently supported by productivity gains, higher public spending in the run-up to successive forthcoming elections and uncertainties over investors' appetite for emerging markets risk.
hawkish	The monetary policy stance, assessed via broad monetary conditions, remained prudent in the context of a pre-emptive tightening of money market liquidity control and of the maintenance of restrictive minimum reserve requirements.
hawkish	According to statistical data , year-on-year inflation rose to 6.03 percent in September mainly due to a steep increase in food prices and an adverse impact of the correction in the leu exchange rate against the background of recent turbulence on world financial markets .
hawkish	The broader analysis of economic developments shows a relative slowdown of economic growth , attributable to the negative supply-side shock triggered by farming sector output , with consumption remaining at unsustainable levels, as also revealed by the persistent worsening of Romania's external deficit .
hawkish	Nevertheless, the risk of a prolonged deviation of inflation from the target through part of 2008 tends to diminish the favourable impact of this consolidation and to affect the inflation expectations of corporates and households.
hawkish	The NBR Board has decided to raise the monetary policy rate to 7.5 percent per annum from 7.0 percent
hawkish	The risks associated with an increase in wages not being supported by sufficient progress in productivity and a possible easing of fiscal policy require the maintenance of a prudent monetary policy stance.
hawkish	The persistence of negative supply-side effects, high household income dynamics, the projected rise in public spending towards year-end, as well as uncertainties over leu exchange rate movements signal that end-2007 inflation will exceed the upper limit of the 3-5 percent target band.
hawkish	A return of inflation to a downward trajectory compatible with achieving the medium-term disinflation objectives and the progress in the nominal and real convergence process requires tighter monetary policy and increased consistency of the entire economic policy mix.
hawkish	The annual inflation rate climbed to 7.97 percent in February 2008 from 7.26 percent in the previous month, mainly due to the upward adjustment of natural gas prices and the persistent impact of the drop in the 2007 agricultural output on food prices.
hawkish	The NBR Board is restating that, apart from tighter monetary policy, the implementation of a restrictive economic policy mix, focusing on the fiscal and income components, and stepped-up structural reforms are essential to ensure the return to a durable downward trend in inflation, thus contributing to the achievement of sustainable economic growth in the longer term.
hawkish	Year-on-year inflation was 6.67 percent in November 2007, remaining above the upper limit of the target band, due to a steep increase in food prices and in the tariffs of services indexed to the leu's exchange rate.
hawkish	The short-term inflation outlook has worsened in the context of heightened macroeconomic risks, especially those related to the income policy and higher public spending in the run-up to forthcoming elections as well as uncertainties over investors ' appetite for emerging market risk.
hawkish	The restrictiveness of the entire macroeconomic policy mix will help attain the inflation objectives agreed upon with the government, thus resuming the downward trend in inflation as well as ensuring sustainable economic growth in the medium term.
hawkish	The NBR Board has decided to raise the monetary policy rate to 9.0 percent per annum from 8.0 percent.
hawkish	The annual inflation rate climbed to 7.97 percent in February 2008 from 7.26 percent in the previous month, mainly due to the upward adjustment of natural gas prices and the persistent impact of the drop in the 2007 agricultural output on food prices.
hawkish	Core inflation, calculated by excluding the impact of administered and volatile (vegetables, fruit, eggs and fuel) prices as well as the effect of vice tax, rose to 6.17 percent in February 2008 from 5.92 percent in the previous month.
hawkish	The analyses reconfirm the outlook that annual inflation would remain in the following months above the upper limit of the variation band around the target due to continued excess demand-related pressures as well as prolonged effects of supply-side shocks (mainly fuel and food prices).
hawkish	The increase was mainly due to the cumulative effects of: the persistence and amplitude of supply-side shocks, increasing pressures arising from excess demand, depreciation of the national currency and worsening inflation expectations.
hawkish	The present forecast shows that annual inflation is likely to temporarily remain above the upper limit of the variation band around the target in the following months and reveals risks similar to those underlined in the previous forecasting exercise.
hawkish	The need to effectively anchor inflation expectations by avoiding their additional worsening against the background of global market tensions requires the continuation of monetary policy restrictiveness with an appropriate dosage of its instruments, while also calling for stronger support from other components of the economic policy mix.
hawkish	Moreover, the administered price increases will lead to a temporarily faster growth of annual inflation rate in July.
hawkish	Nevertheless, the forecasted increase in annual consumer prices will continue to be significantly above the upper limit of the variation band around the 2008 inflation target, requiring the maintenance of a tight monetary policy stance for a longer period.
hawkish	The annual inflation rate will remain in the upcoming period above the upper limit of the variation band around the 2008 target.
hawkish	The analysis of the most recent statistical data reveals a continued high dynamics of domestic demand as investments picked up and consumption remained at an unsustainable level in the context of a rapid expansion of credit to the private sector, especially foreign currency loans.
hawkish	The rise of aggregate demand, boosted mainly by higher incomes and non-government credit dynamics, has been faster than the aggregate supply advance, causing exogenous shocks to feed through into prices and making the external deficit widen further.
hawkish	Wage growth stayed above labor productivity dynamics.
hawkish	These measures will ensure restrictiveness of broad monetary conditions.
hawkish	Inflationary pressures have been amplified by persistent excess demand as a consequence of strong wage increases and fast growth of credit to the private sector.
hawkish	Under such circumstances and in light of available data, the NBR Board has decided to adopt a set of measures to tighten monetary policy.
hawkish	The adjusted monetary policy stance should ensure a firm and sustainable anchoring of inflation expectations at low levels, in order to limit the temporary rise of aggregate prices and bring annual price growth as fast as possible within the medium-term disinflation trajectory agreed with the government.
hawkish	The developments in core inflation reveal both the persistent excess demand and the ongoing effects of supply-side shocks.
hawkish	Both investment and final household consumption sped up, the latter being driven by significant rises in incomes and the persistently rapid increase of credit to the private sector, especially that of foreign currency-denominated loans.
hawkish	Wage growth stayed above labour productivity dynamics, fuelling inflationary pressures as well as the risk of deteriorating external competitiveness.
hawkish	Under these circumstances, further consolidation of monetary policy restrictiveness through an appropriate dosage of its instruments is needed, as well as stronger support from other components of the economic policy mix.
hawkish	On the other hand, the depreciation of the average annual leu-euro exchange rate (9.3 percent in 2008 compared to the previous year) is fueling inflationary pressures.
hawkish	However, the annual inflation rate continues to stay above the upper limit of the variation band around the target.
hawkish	The analysis of the most recent statistics show an increase in the annual inflation.
hawkish	Meanwhile, the leu strengthened versus the euro due to an improved perception of foreign investors towards the Romanian economy.
hawkish	A significant improvement of the liquidity in the banking sector is worth noting.
hawkish	On the other hand, concerns remain regarding the potential significant second round effects of the VAT increase.
hawkish	The analysis of macroeconomic developments shows a continued fast increase in exports, also reflected in import flows, along with a sustained industrial output dynamics.
hawkish	As the increased value added tax will immediately trigger a significant rise of consumer price levels - and consequently a temporary pick-up in inflation - the NBR will act to limit the second-round effects of this measure and firmly anchor inflation expectations at low levels.
hawkish	In order to prevent second-round effects of the VAT rate hike, the monetary policy stance aims to firmly anchor inflation expectations.
hawkish	The analysis of macroeconomic developments reveals ongoing positive annual growth in industrial output and exports. 
hawkish	The annual inflation rate rose to 7.96 percent in December 2010, in line with the NBR forecasts, although significantly above the upper limit of the variation band around the target.
hawkish	In the medium-term, upside risks to inflation remain significant, coming mainly from the timing and magnitude of administered price adjustments, the volatility of capital flows amid developments in the sovereign debt crisis in the European Union and the United States, as well as uncertainties regarding the evolution of global commodity prices.
hawkish	The recovery of the Romanian economy has continued ? underpinned by favourable dynamics of exports, as well as of industrial and farming output.
hawkish	The annual inflation rate picked up in September 2012.
hawkish	The external environment features a relative consolidation in investor confidence, as a result of measures implemented by major central banks.
hawkish	The improved investor sentiment coupled with the shift to adequate liquidity management in the banking system caused money market rates and yields on government securities to decline and gradually near the monetary policy rate, thus strengthening the policy rate transmission.
hawkish	The NBR carefully calibrated the monetary policy instruments, also by shifting from firm to adequate liquidity management, which led to an improvement of liquidity conditions on the money market and hence drove interbank rates considerably lower.
hawkish	Turning to economic growth, the annual GDP dynamics picked up in 2013 Q1 on the back of net exports, whose upturn entailed a marked advance in manufacturing output.
hawkish	Exports, together with this year?s bumper crops, have been the main driver of the recent economic upturn in Romania, contributing to a substantial correction of the balance-of-payments current account deficit and boosting industrial production.
hawkish	The economic activity was further bolstered by exports, as well as by the improvement in domestic demand given the increase in household final consumption.
hawkish	As for economic growth, in 2013, exports were the driving force behind the pick-up in economic activity in Romania, having a further favourable impact on the current account, whereas consumption and investment are envisaged to recover gradually. 
hawkish	The pick-up in economic activity was attributed to the favourable performance of net exports as well as to the improved domestic demand.
hawkish	The improvement in economic activity in Romania has further been fostered by export growth and the favourable performance of the industrial sector, as well as by the gradual consolidation of consumption.
hawkish	The improved perception of investors and rating agencies on the Romanian economy, due to the favourable developments witnessed by its fundamentals, has led to an increase in capital inflows, as also reflected in the domestic currency appreciation.
hawkish	The improvement in economic activity in Romania has further been fostered by the favourable performance of industrial output, fuelled mainly by external demand growth and the gradually rebounding domestic demand, amid a further narrow current account deficit.
hawkish	The real growth rate of domestic currency loans picked up thanks to the pass-through of the successive policy rate cuts onto lending rates on new business to companies and households.
hawkish	The real annual growth rate of domestic currency loans gained momentum, thanks to the pass-through of the successive policy rate cuts onto lending rates on new business to companies and households, also fostered by the easing of money market liquidity conditions. 
hawkish	The fast pick-up in consumption and the expected rebound in investment pave the way for a consolidation of economic growth in the period ahead.
hawkish	Data illustrate a pick-up in private consumption and investment growth, bolstered by the recovery of lending in local currency, to households in particular, along with a sizeable advance in unit wage costs across the industrial sector.
hawkish	Statistical data also illustrate that the dynamics of nominal wage earnings and unit labour costs in the industrial sector stayed on an upward trend.
hawkish	In May 2015, the annual inflation rate climbed to a higher-than-expected 1.2 percent, as volatile prices saw a relative step-up in their annual increase, while the average annual inflation rate was stuck at 0.9 percent for the third month in a row.
hawkish	The faster economic growth in 2015 Q3 (3.6 percent) was stoked up by rising private consumption, amid higher nominal income of households, the lending recovery, lower indirect taxation and stronger confidence in the economy.
hawkish	GDP growth gathered momentum in 2015 Q3.
hawkish	The latest statistical data show an ongoing swift rate of increase of consumer demand, under the impact of the new fiscal easing measures and higher household income.
hawkish	The most recent data and business surveys point to an ongoing expansion of consumer demand, amid the fiscal stimuli and rising household income. 
hawkish	Real monetary conditions have retained their stimulative nature.
hawkish	On the supply side, the key determinant of the pick-up in economic growth was the gross value added in the services sector, which came to account for an unprecedented 60 percent of GDP.
hawkish	The most recent data and business surveys point to an ongoing expansion of consumer demand and elevated unit labour costs in industry.
hawkish	The economic growth sped up to 4.3 percent (annual change) in 2016 Q1, following the rapid expansion of domestic absorption, mainly of consumer demand, amid higher incomes of households, the easing of the fiscal policy stance and the consolidation seen by the dynamics of private sector credit.
hawkish	The new forecast retains its upward profile, amid inflationary pressures from excess aggregate demand and unit labour costs.
hawkish	When discussing recent developments in the economy, Board members emphasised the faster than-expected second-quarter growth of 6 percent in annual terms, hinting at a stronger advance in excess aggregate demand, also in the short term.
hawkish	Board members remarked that the step-up in economic activity had been accompanied by a robust increase in the number of employees economy-wide and a fall in ILO unemployment rate to a post-crisis low, hinting at further labour market tightening. 
hawkish	In their analyses, a large part of the Board members were of the opinion that developments in economic growth warranted close scrutiny in terms of potential risks of overheating, although it was pointed out that no such signs had been visible yet.
hawkish	It was pointed out that, during Q3 as a whole, the annual inflation rate had nevertheless confirmed the upward expectations and that, in the absence of the transitory impact of lowering the standard VAT rate from 24 percent to 20 percent, it would have increased to 0.82 percent in September from 0.68 percent in June. 
hawkish	Looking at economic growth, Board members mentioned that it had exceeded expectations in Q2, due mainly to household consumption, as well as to gross fixed capital formation.
hawkish	It was remarked that the latest developments pointed to economic growth slowing down in Q3, although remaining above potential, which implied the further widening of the positive output gap and hence the strengthening of the ensuing inflationary pressures.
hawkish	Against this backdrop, it was highlighted that the pace of growth of Romania?s economy would probably be the fastest in the EU in 2016 and would continue afterwards to rank high in that hierarchy, including in the region.
hawkish	It was shown that the implementation, be it even partial, of these measures would lead to an overheating of the economy and that the adverse effects might become manifest/strengthen over the medium and long term, especially if public investment were to be further postponed.
hawkish	Board members noted that the number of employees economy-wide had continued to increase at the relatively robust pace seen a quarter earlier, while the unemployment rate had fallen by another 0.2 percentage points to a new post-crisis low.
hawkish	In this context, Board members noted that, in the first two months of 2016 Q4, private sector credit had continued to grow, this time mainly due to the performance of loans to non-financial corporations. 
hawkish	However, the assessment made by Board members also revealed prevailing upside risks to the short-term forecast, related to post-election developments, with implications on the longer-term inflation outlook.
hawkish	References were also made to the recent more favourable performance of China?s economy and to the slight improvement in the prospects of emerging economies, commodity-exporting ones in particular, amid the rebound in demand for commodities and/or in the international prices thereof, fuelled by the anticipated US fiscal stimulus.
hawkish	Members also mentioned the risk of indirect inflationary effects of the uptrend in international energy commodity prices becoming manifest, especially amid high wage costs, a possible hint being the upward trajectory of the dynamics of industrial producer prices on the domestic market. 
hawkish	It was noted that the annual inflation rate had confirmed the upward expectations in December 2016.
hawkish	Behind the step-up in the annual inflation rate had stood primarily the faster dynamics of fuel prices, which had reverted to positive readings in December, prompted by the advance in oil prices on international markets.
hawkish	Board members remarked that the latest economic developments indicated a slight pick-up in quarterly GDP dynamics in 2016 Q4, implying the resumed growth of excess aggregate demand and of the ensuing inflationary pressures.
hawkish	It was observed that the annual growth rate of the average net wage earnings economy-wide had witnessed only a very slight slowdown October through November, similarly to the dynamics of unit wage costs in industry, and had remained in the two-digit range.
hawkish	At the same time, Board members highlighted the decisive contribution to the outlook for a higher annual inflation rate from fundamentals, captured primarily by core inflation.
hawkish	The latter was expected to witness a strong acceleration, albeit unevenly distributed over the projection horizon, with the forecasted annual adjusted CORE2 inflation rate rising more slowly in 2017 than in the previous projection, yet at a faster pace in the second part of 2018.
hawkish	It was stressed that the major determinant of this core inflation pattern was the dynamics of excess aggregate demand and of its inflationary pressures, anticipated to be slacker than in the prior projection over the very short term and markedly faster thereafter, amid the relative step-up in the forecasted rate of quarterly GDP growth over the projection horizon, after the significant slowdown in 2016 H2.
hawkish	It was noted that the relatively swifter economic growth was backed by the recent cuts/removal of taxes/non-tax fees and charges, as well as by the new hikes in wages, pensions and other household income, to which added the accommodative real monetary conditions.
hawkish	Mention was made of the possibility of more robust economic growth in the euro area and globally, driven by the ongoing strongly accommodative ECB monetary policy stance, by the anticipated fiscal stimulus to the US economy, and by the potentially stronger recovery of major emerging economies, amid the rise in international commodity prices.
hawkish	Against this backdrop, Board members referred to the faster-than-expected pick-up in economic growth in 2016 Q4, to 4.7 percent year on year, against 4.3 percent in the previous quarter, implying a likely wider-than-anticipated reopening of the positive output gap.
hawkish	This development had however been accompanied by an increase in the fiscal deficit to 2.4 percent of GDP, against 1.4 percent a year earlier, and a widening of the current account deficit to 2.3 percent of GDP, from 1.2 percent in 2015.
hawkish	Discussions on labour market developments referred to the slightly faster rise in the number of employees economy-wide in 2016 Q4, together with the further fall in unemployment rate, which had touched a new record low in January 2017.
hawkish	Unit wage costs industry-wide had also risen at a swifter annual pace in the first month of this year ? as the growth rate of labour costs had accelerated considerably faster than that of productivity ?, so a protraction of this trend should be examined also in terms of price competitiveness of Romania?s exports.
hawkish	During the discussions on future developments, Board members noted that the current short-term forecast reconfirmed the outlook for the annual inflation rate to pick up slightly in the following months.
hawkish	On the other hand, private consumption growth ? the driving force behind last year?s step-up in GDP dynamics to 4.8 percent ? had climbed to a nine-year high of 7.3 percent, mainly on account of higher real disposable income.
hawkish	Board members remarked the further increase in the number of employees economy-wide, which had moderated only slightly in February, and the fall in the ILO unemployment rate to 5.3 percent in March.
hawkish	In their analysis, Board members pointed out the major role that supply-side factors continued to play in the configuration of the upward path of the forecasted annual inflation rate, especially over the short time horizon.
hawkish	Members noted, on the one hand, the balancing trend of the risks to the outlook for economic growth and inflation in the euro area/EU and globally, inter alia amid the ongoing accommodative monetary policy stance, especially in developed countries, and the anticipated fiscal stimulus to the US economy.
hawkish	Board members observed that the annual adjusted CORE2 inflation had exceeded the forecasted level even more visibly, given its continued advance in Q2 to 1.42 percent in June, whereas the medium-term forecast had anticipated its quasi-stagnation around the 1.04 percent level seen in March.
hawkish	The same data indicated private consumption as the engine of the robust economic growth in 2017 Q2.
hawkish	In that context, Board members pointed out the further double-digit annual dynamics, in the first two months of Q2, of both the average gross wage earnings and the unit wage costs in industry on the consumer goods segment, despite a moderate slowdown across the sector.
hawkish	The rise had primarily been driven by the electricity price hike, as well as by fuel price developments and faster core inflation.
hawkish	Board members deemed that core inflation behaviour hinted at the build-up of inflationary pressures from fundamentals on the demand and cost sides, amid the more pronounced cyclical position of the economy and the hike in unit wage costs.
hawkish	It was noticed that, on the supply side, the swifter economic growth had benefited from quasi-general support.
hawkish	It was concluded that, against that background, labour market tightening had grown significantly stronger of late and that it might persist, given that specialised surveys and analyses showed moderate employment intentions in the near run, but also major difficulties encountered by employers in recruiting skilled labour, as well as an increased staff turnover rate.
hawkish	In that context, it was shown that the annual growth rate of average gross nominal wage earnings economy-wide had picked up further in the period from June to July and consolidated at particularly high two-digit levels from a historical perspective and above those recorded in 2016.
hawkish	Board members then analysed, also from the perspective of monetary transmission, the pronounced uptrend in interbank money market rates towards end-Q3, noting that it had partly stemmed from the upward revision of inflation expectations and the stronger expectations on the adjustment of the monetary policy stance, inter alia in light of international financial market developments.
hawkish	Significant impetus had been given by the reduction in the structural liquidity surplus on the money market, under the simultaneous influence of the key autonomous liquidity factors, with a major role played by the operations in the Treasury account and by non-residents? transactions on the local financial market, the latter reflecting a likely shift in the related risk perception. 
hawkish	It was noted that the annual inflation rate had posted a faster-than-forecasted rise during Q3 too, and that, in the absence of all changes in indirect taxes, excise duties and non-tax fees and charges, it would have stood at 2.6 percent in September, marginally above the midpoint of the flat target. 
hawkish	Moreover, Board members considered that, in H2, the annual pace of economic growth would probably exceed that seen in H1, as well as that previously projected, being expected to accelerate in Q3, before slightly slowing in Q4, and thereby carrying the potential for a relatively larger rise in excess aggregate demand.
hawkish	The new decline in the unemployment rate to 5.0 percent in September was also referred to. 
hawkish	It was noted that, in September, the annual increase in credit to the private sector had continued to accelerate both in nominal and real terms.
hawkish	They observed that the annual inflation rate had continued to leap during the first two months of 2017 Q4, going up from 1.77 percent in September to 2.63 percent in October and to 3.23 percent in November, close to the upper bound of the variation band of the flat target and significantly above the forecast.
hawkish	As for the cyclical position of the economy, Board members remarked that, in Q3, economic growth had witnessed the fourth successive faster-than-expected acceleration, which had also been the most significant one; the annual growth rate of GDP had climbed to 8.8 percent, from 6.1 percent in Q2, given that, contrary to forecasts, its quarterly rate had followed a more pronounced upward trend to a ten-year high. 
hawkish	Board members deemed that the Q3 developments pointed to a new increase, significantly above expectations, in excess aggregate demand, probably moderated somewhat by the temporary pick-up in potential GDP in that interval, under the impact of the positive supply-side shock from bumper crops.
hawkish	In that context, reference was made to the two-digit levels (particularly high from a historical perspective and compared with those recorded in 2016) further posted in Q3 by the annual dynamics of the average gross nominal wage and of the total hourly labour costs.
hawkish	Following the analysis, Board members found that the current context called for further adjustment of the monetary policy stance via an increase in the monetary policy rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 2.00 percent.
hawkish	Under the circumstances, the NBR Board unanimously decided to increase the monetary policy rate to 2.00 percent from 1.75 percent, as well as to raise the deposit facility rate to 1.00 percent from 0.75 percent and the lending (Lombard) facility rate to 3.00 percent from 2.75 percent.
hawkish	Board members also noted the influences arising from the dynamics of some international agri-food commodity prices and from the relative weakening of the leu versus the euro, as well as from the likely indirect effects of the increases in the oil price and the prices of some utilities, inter alia in the context in which short-term inflation expectations had been more firmly adjusted upwards in the course of Q4.
hawkish	Moreover, the economic expansion was seen as very likely to re-enter a decelerating trend in 2017 Q4 - 2018 Q1, with its annual dynamics remaining, however, markedly faster than in the November forecast, implying a relative increase in the positive output gap and its inflationary pressures.
hawkish	Board members expressed their concerns about the labour market tightness as well.
hawkish	At the same time, however, Board members voiced concern over the risk that the strong inflation bout driven by supply-side shocks might trigger significant side effects via the worsening of medium-term inflation expectations and implicitly compound the efforts and costs of bringing inflation back under control, especially amid growing pressures from fundamentals. 
hawkish	Mention was also made of the upside risks induced by a possibly higher increase in corporate costs, along with tighter profit margins, due mostly to the new fiscal and income-related measures, as well as to labour market tightening.
hawkish	Board members also noted the contribution of fundamentals, given that the annual adjusted CORE2 inflation rate had risen faster even than the latest forecast to reach 2.9 percent in February from 2.4 percent in December.
hawkish	The evolution of the adjusted CORE2 inflation was deemed to reflect stronger demand-pull and cost-push inflationary pressures, in the context of the economy?s advanced cyclical position and tight labour market conditions. 
hawkish	At the same time, Board members noticed an increased contribution made also by core inflation, which had continued to accelerate in Q1, exceeding expectations once again.
hawkish	It was observed that the slightly faster-than-expected increase had been triggered by supply-side factors, especially the significant, larger-than-anticipated hikes in fuel prices ? amid the rise in the oil price and in the exchange rate of the leu against the US dollar ? and in tobacco product prices.
hawkish	However, unit labour costs had posted again a faster annual growth or reported further two-digit dynamics in the first four months of 2018, while short-term inflation expectations had continued to see upward adjustments.
hawkish	At the same time, Board members noted that the annual growth rate of credit to the private sector had stepped up April through May compared with the Q1 average. 
hawkish	It was shown that the outlook for economic growth also assumed less accommodative monetary conditions over the projection horizon.
hawkish	Some Board members underlined that inflation developments in 2018 had validated the NBR forecasts and the central bank?s monetary policy conduct which had not overreacted to the significant rise seen by the annual inflation rate in the summer months.
hawkish	Board members agreed that, based on the new data and assessments, a robust economic growth in annual terms was also expected in the first half of 2019, amid some mild fluctuations in the quarterly growth, so that the positive output gap would likely grow in that period in line with the February forecast.
hawkish	Turning to the cyclical position of the economy, Board members remarked that, in Q1, economic expansion had witnessed a stronger-than-anticipated acceleration ? to 5.0 percent from 4.1 percent in 2018 Q4 ?, given an unanticipated rebound in its quarterly dynamics, implying a likely larger advance in excess aggregate demand than the forecast for that period.
hawkish	The trade deficit had widened considerably faster than in the same year-earlier period, also triggering a deepening of the current account deficit in annual terms, despite the improvement, in that period, in the primary and secondary income balances.
hawkish	It was concluded, on the other hand, that the action of fundamentals would probably be slightly more inflationary over the short time horizon than previously anticipated, given the somewhat stronger pressures expected to be exerted by aggregate demand, wage costs and short-term inflation expectations.
hawkish	Furthermore, it was shown that fundamentals were expected to exert somewhat stronger-than-previously-anticipated inflationary pressures, and relatively steady over the projection horizon, given the forecasts on the cyclical position of the economy, wage costs, as well as import price dynamics.
hawkish	Board members pointed out that the deterioration of labour market developments had been cushioned in April by firms? recourse to furlough, which had been financially supported by the authorities, while in May it had been mitigated by the resumption of activity in some sectors, as well as by new government support measures. 
hawkish	Economic activity continued to rebound in 2021 Q1 at a considerably faster pace than anticipated, albeit slower than in the previous quarter, thus recovering almost entirely the loss incurred in 2020 Q2. 
hawkish	The annual inflation rate continued to rise above the upper bound of the variation band of the target in June 2021, implicitly above the forecast, climbing to 3.94 percent from 3.75 percent in May and 3.05 percent in March 2021.
hawkish	The annual growth rate of credit to the private sector continued to pick up in June.
hawkish	The annual adjusted CORE2 inflation rate further rose somewhat faster than anticipated.
hawkish	In the meeting held today, 10 January 2022, based on the currently available data and assessments, and in light of the elevated uncertainty, the NBR Board decided to increase the monetary policy rate to 2.00 percent per annum, from 1.75 percent per annum, as of 11 January 2022, and to maintain firm control over money market liquidity. 
hawkish	The latest assessments indicate the outlook for the annual inflation rate to remain above the upper bound of the target band over the short time horizon, as it is seen following a higher path than in the latest medium-term forecast published in the February 2019 Inflation Report.
hawkish	The prudent monetary policy stance and the preventive measures taken in the area of prudential supervision of the banking sector are meant to reinforce the Romanian economy?s capacity to withstand external shocks.
neutral	The continued risk aversion of financial investors amid persistent turbulences on international financial markets has weighed on developments in the leu's exchange rate.
neutral	At the same time, the deepening of the financial crisis on global markets has triggered uncertainties surrounding the world economic outlook and the implications on the Romanian economy.
neutral	The persistence of uncertainties related to trends in the global economy, capital flows, administered prices and volatile prices are also worth mentioning.
neutral	The external environment shows that uncertainties remain regarding the resolution of the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, with impact on investors? risk aversion, capital flow volatility, as well as on global economic developments.
neutral	The external environment was marked by tensions and volatility, amid the adverse reaction of financial markets to the escalating sovereign debt crisis, the deepening of problems faced by the European banking system and the lingering uncertainties related to the world economic growth outlook. 
neutral	The external environment was marked by deteriorating prospects of global economic activity against the background of increased investor risk aversion and of the uncertainties surrounding a sustainable resolution of the euro area sovereign debt crisis.
neutral	The exchange rate of the leu posted wider swings, owing to heightened volatility of investors? risk appetite, as well as to the persistence of uncertainty surrounding economic activity in Europe and elsewhere.
neutral	The uncertainty surrounding this outlook arises from both the external environment ? mostly from the geopolitical tensions in the region, the situation in Greece and the euro area, and from the growing divergence between the monetary policy stances pursued by major central banks worldwide ? and the domestic environment.
neutral	The major risks associated with the current projection relate to the lingering uncertainty surrounding external developments, generated by the situation in Greece and in the euro area, by regional geopolitical tensions, and by the divergence between the monetary policy stances of major central banks worldwide.
neutral	In view of the elevated uncertainty surrounding economic and financial developments, the NBR Board also decided to suspend the previously announced calendar of monetary policy meetings and hold monetary policy meetings whenever necessary for an indefinite period.
neutral	The NBR Board analyzed the developments in the main macroeconomic indicators, in both domestic and international financial markets as well as their prospects in the context of Romania's integration in the European Union.
neutral	The NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, which assesses the recent macroeconomic context and inflation outlook, as well as the main challenges and risks to monetary policy in the coming period.
neutral	The monetary policy stance, assessed via broad monetary conditions, has remained prudent in the context of the previous adjustment in the levels of monetary policy instruments, a faster leu appreciation in the recent period and the removal of some administrative measures limiting non-government credit dynamics.
neutral	Following an assessment of the new forecast taking into account the need to continue disinflation in the medium term, in line with the euro adoption calendar as well as of the medium-term risks and uncertainties related to the inflation outlook, especially the factors outside the central bank's authority, the NBR Board has set the 2009 inflation target at 3.5 percent, with a target band of +/- one percentage point.
neutral	The 2009 target, also assumed by the government, is in line with the need to achieve a sustainable medium-term inflation rate in the context of the ongoing convergence with the European Union - a process that requires sustained financial and economic efforts underpinned by an adequate macroeconomic policy mix.
neutral	The NBR Board has decided to pursue an adequate control of liquidity via open-market operations in line with financial market conditions.
neutral	The NBR Board has decided to leave unchanged the existing minimum reserve requirement ratios on both leu- and foreign currency-denominated liabilities of credit institutions.
neutral	In light of the available data, the NBR Board has decided to keep unchanged the monetary policy rate at 7.0 percent per annum
neutral	The NBR will vigilantly monitor developments in macroeconomic indicators and their outlook, both domestically and internationally, standing ready to adjust its instrument settings to counteract inflationary pressures in order to resume the assumed disinflation trajectory and achieve medium-term disinflation objectives in a sustainable manner.
neutral	The NBR Board has also decided to leave unchanged the existing minimum reserve requirement ratios on both leu- and foreign currency-denominated liabilities of credit institutions
neutral	The transposition of the new prudential measures into the internal regulations of credit institutions and non-bank financial institutions should be done within 30 days from their publication in the Official Gazetta.
neutral	The NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, which assesses the recent macroeconomic context and the inflation outlook, as well as the main challenges and risks to monetary policy in the coming period.
neutral	The NBR Board is reiterating that it will carefully monitor global economic developments and analyze the effects of persistent international financial market turbulences on the Romanian economy.
neutral	The NBR will continue to pursue a firm management of money market liquidity via open-market operations, leaving unchanged the existing minimum reserve requirement ratios on both leu- and foreign currency-denominated liabilities of credit institutions.
neutral	The NBR Board has decided to keep the monetary policy rate unchanged.
neutral	In such circumstances, the maintenance of a firm monetary policy stance as well as a consistent support from the other components of the macroeconomic policy mix is required.
neutral	The NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, which assesses the recent macroeconomic context and inflation outlook, as well as the main challenges and risks to monetary policy in the coming period.
neutral	This Report will be released to the public in a press conference scheduled for November, 3, 2008.
neutral	The NBR Board is restating that it will continue to manifest the utmost vigilance in fulfilling its objectives in what concerns price stability as well as ensuring financial stability.
neutral	The NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, a document that assesses the recent macroeconomic environment and the inflation outlook, and identifies the main challenges and risks to monetary policy in the coming period.
neutral	The above-mentioned factors reveal the need to maintain a prudent monetary policy stance.
neutral	The NBR Board believes that the implementation of the balanced macroeconomic policy mix agreed under the precautionary external financing arrangement will allow a gradual and prudent adjustment of the monetary policy in line with the resumption of the disinflation process and with the consolidation of financial stability.
neutral	The average interbank money market rate has approached the monetary policy rate.
neutral	The monetary policy stance remained prudent, with the NBR permanently calibrating its broad monetary conditions with the view to consolidating the convergence of inflation towards medium-term objectives and ensuring favorable conditions for a sustainable revival of lending activity.
neutral	The NBR Board reaffirms that a firm and consistent implementation of the macroeconomic policy mix ? monetary, fiscal and income- as well as of the structural reforms agreed under the multilateral external financing arrangement with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and other international financial institutions is essential for achieving a further sustainable disinflation, maintaining financial stability and for a lasting and sustainable relaunch of economic activity.
neutral	The ongoing prudent stance of the monetary policy, including an optimal dosage of the instruments available to the central bank, and the observance by the other components of the macroeconomic policy mix of the commitments agreed under the multilateral external financing arrangement are essential to ensure a sustainable disinflation and fulfilment of medium-term objectives.
neutral	The annual inflation rate stood at 4.74 percent in December 2009.
neutral	The NBR Board has also decided to ensure an adequate management of liquidity in the banking system and to maintain the existing levels of minimum reserve requirement ratios on both leu-denominated and foreign currency-denominated liabilities of credit institutions.
neutral	The short-term outlook indicates risks related to evolutions in administered and volatile food prices, in a seasonal context and due to base effects, as well as the persistence of uncertainties regarding the impact of fiscal consolidation measures, which, amid the current domestic social and political developments, require the maintenance of a prudent monetary policy stance in a bid to firmly anchor inflation expectations.
neutral	The analysis of the latest developments in macroeconomic indicators reveals that the annual inflation rate will be close to 8.0 percent at the end of 2010, in line with the NBR forecasts.
neutral	The risks related mainly to factors outside the central bank's influence ? administered price adjustments, consistent continuation of the fiscal consolidation and structural reforms as well as future developments in external agri-food and commodity prices as well those arising from the international economic environment - require a further prudent monetary policy stance.
neutral	Broad monetary conditions remained adequate for fulfilling the medium-term inflation target as the monetary policy stance stayed prudent.
neutral	The minimum reserve ratio on leu-denominated liabilities was left unchanged.
neutral	The NBR Board has examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, a document that assesses the recent macroeconomic context, investigates the inflation outlook and identifies the main challenges and constraints to monetary policy in the period ahead.
neutral	These decisions, along with the consistent implementation of commitments made by the Romanian authorities under the financing agreements with international institutions, will ensure the preservation of prospects of a sustainable resumption of disinflation and a robust recovery of the economy in the context of the nominal and real convergence process.
neutral	The updated projection of macroeconomic developments shows the annual inflation rate remaining inside the variation band around the central targets of 3 percent in both 2011 and 2012.
neutral	Recent central bank assessments show that in December 2011 the annual inflation rate will near the mid-point of the variation band around the 3 percent target, in line with the latest NBR forecast. 
neutral	These perspectives confirm the need to maintain adequate real broad monetary conditions in line with the anticipated movements in the annual inflation rate throughout the projection horizon.
neutral	The aggregate real broad monetary conditions have been permanently calibrated so as to achieve a consolidation of prospects for the inflation rate to continuously remain within the variation band around the target, thus helping the efforts to efficiently anchor anticipations and underpinnings for sustainable economic growth.
neutral	The NBR restates that achieving price and financial stability objectives in the context of the continued fulfillment of commitments under the external financial accords with the European Union, IMF and other financial institutions is crucial to ensure lasting economic growth in the context of a balanced macroeconomic policy mix.
neutral	The current assessment shows the annual inflation rate remaining inside the variation band around the central target throughout the forecast horizon.
neutral	Developments in macroeconomic indicators show the evolution of inflation in line with the central bank?s forecasts.
neutral	Monetary policy preserved its prudent stance, by adjusting broad monetary conditions to the domestic and global macroeconomic environment.
neutral	The updated forecast reconfirms the prospects of the annual inflation rate to remain within the variation band around the target throughout the forecast horizon.
neutral	The monetary policy remained prudent, seeking to anchor inflation expectations and pave the way for the annual inflation rate to near the medium-term target.
neutral	The prudent monetary policy stance throughout 2012 was aimed at anchoring inflation expectations via a steady dosage of the instruments available to the central bank and strengthening the prospects for the annual inflation rate to remain close to the medium-term target.
neutral	The monetary policy stance aims to fulfil the objectives of price stability over the medium term and financial stability, while also mitigating the adverse impact of external and domestic factors on the economic rebound.
neutral	The analysis of the latest macroeconomic data reveals that inflation posted developments in line with the central bank?s previous projections.
neutral	Such a monetary policy configuration is further aimed at achieving the objective of ensuring medium-term price stability while preserving financial stability and cushioning the adverse impact of domestic and external factors on the recovery of the Romanian economy.
neutral	The latest macroeconomic data show the inflation rate moving in line with the central bank?s previous forecasts and the prospects of its falling within the target band once the statistical effects of the summer 2012 supply-side shocks fade away.
neutral	The improvement in inflation developments and the related outlook has enabled the central bank to gradually adjust the monetary policy stance over the past few months, under conditions compatible with effectively anchoring inflation expectations and in parallel with closely monitoring domestic and external developments.
neutral	At the same time, domestic demand has seen modest recovery, which is envisaged to strengthen gradually.
neutral	According to the updated projection, inflation rate will experience a temporarily steeper fall over the coming months and will remain thereafter inside the variation band around the flat 2.5 percent target until the end of the projection horizon.
neutral	These developments are in line with the previous forecasts of the annual inflation rate returning and subsequently remaining inside the variation band of the flat 2.5 percent target.
neutral	The NBR reiterates that the adequate use of its available tools amid a close monitoring of domestic and global economic developments is aimed at ensuring price stability over the medium term and financial stability.
neutral	The consistent implementation of an adequate macroeconomic policy mix, in line with the precautionary external financing arrangement signed with the international financial institutions, along with balanced social and political developments during the electoral year 2014, will help consolidate the stability of the Romanian economy, thereby strengthening its resilience to external shocks.
neutral	In today?s meeting, the NBR Board examined and approved the quarterly Inflation Report, which reiterates the outlook for the annual inflation rate to run over the medium term inside the variation band of the target, i.e. 1 percentage point around the 2.5 percent multiannual flat target, starting in the latter half of 2014. 
neutral	The international reserves remain in a comfortable zone while a substantial part of the IMF loan under the 2009-2011 arrangement has been repaid.
neutral	These decisions are meant to ensure price stability over the medium term in line with the 2.5 percent 1 percentage point flat target, along with creating favourable conditions for the sustainable recovery of lending, which is likely to help achieve balanced and lasting economic growth.
neutral	The NBR reiterates its commitment to the adequate use of all its available instruments, on the background of close monitoring of domestic and global economic developments, with the aim of securing the achievement of its overriding objectives of medium-term price stability and the preservation of financial stability.
neutral	During 2014, the exchange rate of the leu against the euro witnessed stable developments.
neutral	The NBR Board has also decided to keep unchanged the current levels of minimum reserve requirement ratios on liabilities of credit institutions.
neutral	On the domestic front, the macroeconomic policy mix is conditional on the manner in which the recently approved or announced fiscal and budgetary measures (the new Tax Code and pay rises) will be transposed into the 2016 budget configuration and execution.
neutral	The general context rendered the adoption of a monetary policy decision more difficult.
neutral	Compared to the previous forecast, the updated quarterly projection implies a new substantial revision of the expected path of the annual inflation rate, following the incorporation of the anticipated impact of the fiscal measures recently adopted by Parliament and currently under re-examination.
neutral	At end-2015, foreign exchange reserves amounted to EUR 32 billion, similarly to the level recorded a year before, after making payments on public and publicly-guaranteed external debt service of about EUR 7.2 billion. 
neutral	The current account deficit stood further at a sustainable level, namely below 1 percent of GDP.
neutral	In the absence of the measure on broadening the scope of the reduced VAT rate, the annual inflation rate would have neared 2 percent at year-end, standing inside the 1 percentage point variation band of the 2.5 percent target.
neutral	International reserves remain adequate and Romania?s external position is sustainable.
neutral	The NBR Board reiterates that a balanced macroeconomic policy mix and progress in implementing structural reforms are pivotal to ensuring a stable macroeconomic framework and enhancing the resilience of the Romanian economy to withstand adverse conditions worldwide.
neutral	During the meeting, the Board discussed and adopted the monetary policy decision, based on the data and analyses on current and expected macroeconomic, financial and monetary developments submitted by the specialised departments and other available domestic and external information.
neutral	Board members looked at the monetisation of the economy as well. 
neutral	Board members highlighted the ongoing dual nature of the key uncertainties about developments in inflation fundamentals.
neutral	In their addresses, Board members first referred to recent inflation developments.
neutral	Aside from the evolution of international oil and agri-food prices, developments in administered prices were also deemed relevant.
neutral	During the discussions, some members reiterated that the current corridor formed by interest rates on the NBR?s standing facilities was likely to provide increased flexibility to monetary policy.
neutral	Some Board members pointed out that estimates on potential output and potential growth, as illustrated by international experience, needed additional empirical evidence.
neutral	In the Board members? opinion, the uncertainties associated with this picture continued to generate two-way risks to the inflation outlook.
neutral	At the same time, some Board members mentioned the need for closer correlation of economic policy decisions in order to prevent adverse effects on the real convergence process.
neutral	The baseline scenario sees the inflation rate gradually returning inside the variation band of the target and standing in the upper half of the band at the end of the forecast horizon.
neutral	Moreover, the unanimous opinion was that fiscal and income policy prospects remained uncertain until the 2016 budget execution features were released and, more importantly, the 2017 budget construction that would outline the future stance of the two policies became available. 
neutral	The balance of risks associated with global oil prices seemed to be in relative equilibrium.
neutral	Against this background, members noted the widening of twin deficits, as well as the fact that the current account deficit financing had entirely been covered from foreign direct investment and EU funds.
neutral	Turning to real monetary conditions, Board members took the view that they had remained accommodative in 2017 Q1.
neutral	Some Board members remarked that overall credit developments were not a source of concern and, if imbalances were noticed on certain segments of lending, it would be analysed whether the implementation of macroprudential measures was warranted.
neutral	Some members remarked that it was not clear which path crude oil prices would follow.
neutral	Over the long term, prospects for convergence with the euro area remained plausible, assuming larger capital stock and infrastructure development.
neutral	It was noted that the annual inflation rate had ceased to rise in March, staying relatively steady at 0.18 percent, but that in Q1 as a whole it had gone up in line with the projection.
neutral	Gross fixed capital formation was anticipated to have a positive, albeit modest contribution.
neutral	In the Board members? assessment, the external environment also continued to pose two-way risks to the inflation forecast.
neutral	Specifically, the NBR Board unanimously decided to keep the monetary policy rate at 1.75 percent per annum; in addition, the Board unanimously decided to maintain at 1.50 percentage points the symmetrical corridor defined by the interest rates on the standing facilities around the policy rate, to further pursue adequate liquidity management in the banking system, as well as to leave unchanged the minimum reserve requirement ratio on leu-denominated liabilities of credit institutions.
neutral	The multitude of uncertainties and the absence of insight on the concrete measures and the implementation calendar made it impossible as yet to assess the potential macroeconomic and structural effects.
neutral	At the same time, Board members remarked, however, a significant increase in the uncertainties about the short- and medium-term outlook for the fiscal and income policy stance, likely to generate enhanced uncertainties and two-way risks to the latest medium-term inflation forecast.
neutral	Board members deemed that real monetary conditions had remained highly accommodative in July and August.
neutral	Turning to GDP formation, it was shown that agriculture had played an important part, its contribution (the largest in four years) standing higher than that of industry and being exceeded only by that of services.
neutral	Looking at the recent inflation developments, Board members observed that the annual inflation rate had stood at 3.32 percent at end-2017, i.e. inside the  1 percentage point variation band of the 2.5 percent target.
neutral	Some Board members considered that evolution to be a welcome return towards the potential rate of economic growth, since it implied a contraction in excess aggregate demand. 
neutral	Against that background, Board members underlined again the need for a balanced macroeconomic policy mix, to avoid the overburdening of monetary policy, with undesired effects in the economy.
neutral	Moreover, most Board members reiterated the importance of an adequate dosage and pace of adjustment of the monetary policy stance, from the perspective of anchoring inflation expectations and maintaining the annual inflation rate on the trajectory shown by the NBR?s latest medium-term forecast, while safeguarding financial stability.
neutral	Under the circumstances, the NBR Board unanimously decided to keep unchanged the monetary policy rate at 2.50 percent, the deposit facility rate at 1.50 percent and the lending (Lombard) facility rate at 3.50 percent.
neutral	Some Board members underlined that inflation developments in 2018 had validated the NBR forecasts and the central bank?s monetary policy conduct which had not overreacted to the significant rise seen by the annual inflation rate in the summer months.
neutral	Relative to monetary conditions, Board members showed that the spread between the key interbank money market rates and the monetary policy rate had gradually narrowed over the last two months of 2018, mainly amid the change in liquidity conditions, the inflation dynamics and the likely adjustment in banks? expectations on the evolution of some monetary policy parameters.
neutral	It was remarked that an assessment as comprehensive as possible of the implications of those measures on the short- and medium-term outlook was warranted.
neutral	Against that background, Board members underlined again the need for a balanced macroeconomic policy mix to avoid the overburdening of monetary policy, with undesired effects in the economy. 
neutral	Moreover, the importance of an adequate dosage and pace of adjustment of the monetary policy stance was reiterated, from the perspective of anchoring inflation expectations and maintaining the annual inflation rate on the trajectory shown by the NBR?s latest medium-term forecast, while safeguarding financial stability.
neutral	Board members concluded that the cumulated effects of those measures were difficult to assess at the current stage, considering a series of ambiguities and the multitude of transmission channels in the economy, conducive to a heightened degree of uncertainty surrounding the current forecast.
neutral	The uncertainties about the new fiscal and budgetary measures and the implications for aggregate demand and potential GDP were, however, reiterated.
neutral	Moreover, Board members underlined the need for a balanced macroeconomic policy mix to avoid the overburdening of monetary policy, with undesired effects in the economy; a balanced policy mix was also necessary for the orderly adjustment of the current account deficit. 
neutral	Looking at the recent developments in the dynamics of consumer prices, Board members showed that the annual inflation rate had remained flat at 4.10 percent in May.
neutral	It was observed that the annual growth rate of credit to the private sector had seen its decline come to a halt, remaining relatively constant in April and May, at a level only slightly below the Q1 average.
neutral	At the same time, reference was made to the relative stability of the EUR/RON exchange rate for most of Q3.
neutral	During the meeting, the Board discussed and adopted the monetary policy decisions based on a report on the macroeconomic and financial developments recently recorded and anticipated for the near term, as well as on a document presenting monetary policy decisions adopted in emergency meetings by central banks in Central and Eastern Europe, and on other available domestic and external information.
neutral	At the same time, it was shown that the EUR/RON exchange rate had seen lower fluctuations, under the influence of the relative improvement in global financial market sentiment, as well as amid liquidity conditions on the money market and the interest rate differential.
neutral	In February 2021, the average annual CPI inflation rate remained flat at the 2.6 percent level reported in December 2020.
neutral	The NBR Board decisions aim to preserve price stability over the medium term in line with the 2.5 percent 1 percentage point flat inflation target, in a manner supportive of the recovery of economic activity in the context of fiscal consolidation, while safeguarding financial stability.
neutral	In the meeting held today, 6 August 2021, based on the currently available data and assessments, and in light of the elevated uncertainty, the NBR Board decided to keep the monetary policy rate at 1.25 percent per annum, while preserving tight control over money market liquidity; moreover, it decided to leave unchanged the deposit facility rate at 0.75 percent per annum and the lending (Lombard) facility rate at 1.75 percent per annum.