The meeting opened with a presentation of the fifth situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. This was the first forecast prepared using the new core prediction model, which better captures the interactions between economic agents. Despite slowing slightly in the second quarter of 2008, consumer price inflation had remained well above the inflation-target tolerance band. The current high inflation, however, was still assessed as being a transitory phenomenon mainly reflecting changes to indirect taxes, whose first-round effects had accounted for more than two percentage points of headline inflation, increasing regulated prices (including the introduction of fees in health care) and the exceptionally high food price growth at the end of last year, which, however, was gradually easing.  The current economic phase was assessed as being a decline from the peak of the business cycle, accompanied by domestic inflation pressures. However, the strong appreciation of the exchange rate was offsetting these domestic inflationary pressures by depressing import prices and by affecting the demand side of the economy. GDP growth was slowing, as evidenced by several leading indicators.  At the forecast horizon inflation would be falling towards the inflation target after the unwinding of the effect of the tax and price shocks that occurred in late 2007 and early 2008, thanks to the anti-inflationary effect of the current appreciation of the koruna and a gradual decline in inflation pressures from the domestic economy. GDP growth would continue slowing in the coming quarters owing to the dampening effect of the very strong exchange rate and weak external demand on export growth and also as a result of slowing gross capital formation. Nominal wage growth in the business sector could also be expected to decline from its present values.  Consistent with the forecast was a declining interest rate path for the rest of 2008 and broad interest rate stability for most of 2009.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. The board members agreed that the domestic economy was slowing and that the inflationary pressures were weakening as a result. The ongoing correction in the commodity markets was identified as an additional downside risk to inflation.  At the start of the discussion, it was said that the current situation was very complicated. While it was relatively certain that economic growth was going to slow in both the domestic and external economy, the future path of inflation was far less predictable. The present situation was described as being a combination of three shocks: an inflationary shock to prices of food and energy-producing commodities, an external anti-inflationary demand shock and an exchange rate appreciation shock.  Wage growth, which might be higher than forecasted, was identified as an upside risk to inflation. The recently observed high growth in nominal unit wage costs was mentioned. In the subsequent discussion, however, the majority of the board members cast some doubt on this risk by referring to the deteriorating financial condition of businesses, which would not be able to accept employees’ demands. It was mentioned that although corporations’ current profitability was better than in 2002 and 2003, data on their financial performance revealed that their liquidity had fallen sharply. This was confirmed by the credit data, as operating loans had risen significantly while investment loans had fallen. The opinion was expressed that the combination of falling corporate liquidity and greater unwillingness of the banking sector to finance corporations might be an additional anti-inflationary factor.  The exchange rate remained a downside risk to inflation. On the one hand, it was said that the current exchange rate level would inevitably have repercussions both for real economic activity and for inflation. On the other hand, concerns were also expressed about an excessive correction of the exchange rate, which might be supported by the slowing economic growth. It was said that a reduction of interest rates was to a large extent already contained in the current exchange rate level, and that if rates were not lowered the exchange rate might strengthen again.  The Board also discussed in detail the outlook for domestic economic growth, in particular the effect of the individual components of domestic demand on the expected downswing in GDP growth. It was debated whether the slowdown in growth would arise via a downturn in consumer and investment demand, or whether it would be triggered by the expected decline in net exports. On the one hand, the case was made for a higher contribution of net exports to economic growth. On the other hand, however, it was also said that the observed still strong export growth might be persisting thanks only to the longer lag in its response to the appreciation of the exchange rate.  The recent correction in the commodity markets was identified as a downside risk to inflation, as commodity prices might stabilise at lower levels than assumed by the forecast. It was mentioned that this development might be linked with cooling economic growth and falling consumer confidence abroad. The opinion was expressed that at the forecast horizon commodity prices could be expected to decline further, or at least not start rising again.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to lower the CNB two-week repo rate to 3.50%, effective 8 August 2004. At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 2.50% and 4.50% respectively. Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted in favour of this decision.