The meeting opened with a presentation of the fourth situation report assessing the newly available information and the risks associated with the fulfilment of the May forecast. The risks to inflation were assessed as being on the upside overall, as most of the information available at the time the situation report had been prepared had been moving in this direction. At the same time, though, it was said that if the exchange rate were to stay at its current strong values it might offset these upside risks. Developments in the euro area were acting in the inflationary direction via the expected path of one-year Euribor rates. Rising prices of oil and – among the domestic factors – faster-than-forecasted wage growth were also acting in the same direction. The downside risks to inflation were concentrated in the exchange rate and in slower-than-expected growth of the domestic economy. Moreover, there was considerable uncertainty about whether the current strong appreciation was a temporary or permanent phenomenon.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the risks. The current situation was assessed as being difficult as regards monetary policy decision-making, and the Board agreed that the inflation risks remained balanced to moderately inflationary.  The Board’s discussion began with a description of two extreme but plausible future scenarios. In the first scenario, the central bank would leave interest rates unchanged and the upside risks would materialise, with an exchange rate correction occurring, wages facing upward pressure and inflation expectations rising. This could result in problems hitting the inflation target at the monetary policy horizon. In the second scenario, the central bank would raise interest rates, but the upside risks would fail to materialise and the exchange rate would remain at a strong level or strengthen even further. This situation could lead, via the exchange rate channel of the transmission mechanism, to an undershooting of the inflation target and an inappropriate reduction in economic growth at the monetary policy horizon.  However, it was said in the ensuing discussion that the most likely outcome would be somewhere between these two scenarios. Opinions differed on whether the future path might lead in the inflationary or anti-inflationary direction. Generally higher inflation in the global economy and rising commodity prices were mentioned as upside risks to inflation. A tightening in the form of a rate increase would be necessary only if domestic inflation expectations were to rise. The opinion was also expressed that the upside effect of the external environment was not a central theme of current monetary policy decision-making.  In the subsequent debate about inflation expectations, it was said that a period of high inflation and of waiting for an appreciation to materialise can lead to volatility of inflation expectations. It was also said that the stability of inflation expectations could be disturbed by the expected rise in inflation in the coming months due to the additional one-off effects of the increase in excise duty on tobacco products and growth in natural gas prices. On the other hand, it was said that inflation expectations are not derived by economic agents solely from inflation and are also directly influenced by the exchange rate. The hypothesis of rising inflation expectations was supported by mention of the shape of the interest rate path expected by the financial market, which differed considerably from the implied interest rate path of the May forecast. This argument, however, was questioned by reference to the strong effect of current data on market expectations. In this context, it was also mentioned that given the current exchange rate trend, the implied interest rate path of the August forecast might be even lower than that of the May forecast.  In the discussion of the upside risks to inflation, it was then said that the observed evolution of wages might only be a virtual upside factor, since adjusted for one-off effects wages had not risen as fast in the first quarter of this year as expected in the May forecast. It was said that the nature of the wage trend would be made clearer by the second-quarter figures. The inflationary assessment of the effect of expected foreign interest rates was labelled as equally problematic. The interest rate differential channel underlying this effect assumes precisely the opposite exchange rate trend compared to the current observation. The opinion was also expressed that although the current evolution of adjusted inflation excluding fuels might be a cause for some concern, it was emerging behind the peak of the business cycle, which, according to the revised GDP growth figures, had occurred back in the first quarter of last year. The current high annual growth could therefore be attributed to the jump in inflation in January this year, and adjusted inflation excluding fuels was already falling in quarter-on-quarter terms.  The Board agreed that the current evolution of the exchange rate was a major anti-inflationary factor. It was said that the exchange rate had recorded its highest-ever nominal year-on-year appreciation and it was repeated several times that if this situation were to continue it would inevitably have impacts on inflation and economic growth. In this context, the experience of the similar appreciation wave in 2001 and 2002 and the subsequent response of the economy were discussed at length. It was argued that the current situation was not qualitatively different from that in 2001 and 2002. On the other hand, the opinion was also expressed that the external environment was more inflationary.  There was broad agreement that the impacts of the appreciation on prices and real economic activity would show up mainly at the end of this year and the beginning of the next. It was also said that, moreover, the effects of previous interest rate increases should also start to appear at this time. It was said that signs of a decline in real economic activity were already being observed, in the form of a decrease in quarter-on-quarter GDP growth, a sharp slowdown in investment activity, a fall in vacancies and slowing money supply growth.  Another downside factor mentioned was the expected evolution of real economic activity abroad, as the view of future economic growth in Germany and the EU-15 as a whole was currently being revised.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 3.75%. Six members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. One member voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point: Vice-Governor Hampl.