The meeting opened with a presentation of the third situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. In the first quarter of this year, inflation had fallen below the inflation target and towards the lower boundary of the tolerance band. GDP had decreased, nominal wage growth was slowing and unemployment was rising sharply. Owing to the deepening global economic crisis, the economic situation had been less favourable in this period than assumed by the previous forecast. The rapid depreciation of the exchange rate in late 2008 and early 2009 was generating inflationary pressures which were being partly offset by the anti-inflationary domestic market environment.  According to the new forecast, inflation would continue falling this year but would start to edge up again next year and reach the 2% target at the end of 2010. It was estimated that domestic economic activity would fall by 2.4% this year but that the economy would show modest growth next year. According the forecast, the exchange rate of the koruna would probably in the second quarter correct its depreciation observed at the beginning of this year and would then be broadly stable. Consistent with the forecast was a decline in interest rates this year followed by a modest rise in 2010.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. The board members agreed that the risks of the forecast were broadly balanced but that a high level of uncertainty persisted. The main downside risk to inflation was judged to be the potential deeper and longer-lasting recession abroad. The future path of the koruna exchange rate was seen as a possible substantial risk in both directions.  In the discussion of the outlook for economic activity, it was emphasised that according to the forecast the largest part of the adverse shock had already hit the economy and that the situation should gradually start to change for the better. However, doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether the turnaround was already happening and, if so, whether it was sustainable. Attention was drawn in the debate to the effect measures such as car-scrapping incentives, i.e. to the fact that the signs of improvement were coming from areas in which one-off support measures were being implemented, measures whose effects would probably be only short-lived. The risk that the external situation might be worse than assumed by the forecast was therefore mentioned. Moreover, domestic private consumption might weaken further owing to unfavourable expectations, a rising saving rate and falling employment.  The next subject of debate was the financial condition of corporations. Concerns were raised that the current situation might be significantly worse than shown by the most recently reported data for 2008 Q4 and that many more firms would be loss-making this year. Another adverse phenomenon was rising insolvency, which was also afflicting some export markets to a significant extent. Against this, however, it was said repeatedly that the situation was not entirely bad and that many firms were still managing to cut costs, win orders and generate profits.  There was broad agreement that the forecast correctly identified weak wage-cost pressures, which were acting in the anti-inflationary direction. However, the magnitude of this effect was discussed. The observed rapid growth in unit wage costs might indicate that the labour market might be less anti-inflationary than assumed by the baseline scenario of the forecast. However, it was added that these higher unit costs might reflect adjustment by firms to the reduced output level and might be only temporary. It was said repeatedly that the deteriorating financial condition of corporations and rising rate of unemployment would depress wage growth.  The Board agreed that the future path of the koruna exchange rate constituted a significant risk for the forecast on both sides. The opinion was expressed that given the expected rapid rise in public budget deficits there could be some loss of investor confidence and that a rate reduction might trigger a further wave of depreciation of the koruna. Against this, however, it was said that the relevance of this argument was reduced by the symmetrical worsening of the external fiscal situation, as the deficits would be large in most countries. The opinion was also expressed that the inflationary consequences of a weakening of the koruna might now be subdued, as the available data suggested that the impacts of a weaker exchange rate on domestic prices were less intense in the present situation of weak demand. It was also said in the discussion that the excessive appreciation that might occur if the interest rate differential widened was also a relevant risk.  The Board discussed in depth the current situation in financial intermediation. The opinion was expressed that some improvement had occurred since the autumn, when the markets had been frozen. Market rates were responding better to monetary policy and banks were now restructuring their balance sheets and starting to lend again. Against this, however, it was said that the situation differed from bank to bank. The larger banks were now tending to lend more, but the credit volumes issued via smaller banks were still falling. In addition, interest rates on client loans where in some cases rising, and this was tightening the monetary conditions.  In this context, the pass-through from monetary policy rates to market rates was discussed. The forecast was assuming gradual convergence of the relevant money market rates towards CNB rates and thus an autonomous easing of the interest rate conditions. The Board agreed, however, that this gap was by no means guaranteed to narrow. This was seen as significant downside risk to inflation and an argument for lowering rates. In this context, the opinion was also expressed that the expected need to fund the rising public finance deficit might lead to an increase in rates of medium and long maturities.  The prevailing view was that if normal conditions had not yet been restored on the financial market, there were grounds for monetary policy to play a more active role to compensate for the non-functional parts of the financial sector. It was also said, however, that the current repo rate level was not hindering economic growth and that a further reduction in rates might not be helpful. On the contrary, excessively low rates, especially if they were in place for an extended period, might disrupt financial stability in the longer term.  As regards inflation expectations, it was said that a decrease could be expected. For the first time ever, headline inflation – which is what the public follows – would be lower than monetary-policy relevant inflation. This might be joined by an expected sharp fall in prices of electricity and other consumer basket items that can significantly affect inflation expectations. Anchored inflation expectations were an argument for lower monetary policy rates. At the forecast horizon inflation was converging to the inflation target from below and was not expected to reach it until the end of 2010.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.50%, effective 11 May 2009. At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 0.50% and 2.50% respectively. Five members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Řežábek. Two members voted for leaving the rates unchanged: Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová.