The meeting opened with a presentation of the sixth situation report assessing the new information and the current balance of risks to the fulfilment of the August macroeconomic forecast. The main downside risks included the actual inflation outturn, as in July and August consumer prices had risen more slowly than forecasted, and also the exchange rate, which had appreciated significantly since the publication of the forecast. Conversely, higher-than-expected oil prices on world markets and the evolution of investment, which was worse than that of the other components of GDP, were assessed as upside risks to inflation.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing view in the Board was that the resulting balance of risks to the fulfilment of the August forecast was anti-inflationary, although the members differed in their opinions about the intensity of the risk. Some thought that the upside and downside factors were broadly balanced, but opinions were also repeatedly expressed that it was highly likely the inflation target would be significantly undershot unless monetary policy was eased.  The Board stated that there was still quite a high risk premium between monetary policy rates and money market rates. The opinion was expressed that a decline in the risk premium would de facto mean an additional easing of the monetary and financial conditions. Against this, however, it was said that any reduction of the risk premium might be accompanied by more intense appreciation pressures, which would eliminate the stimulating effect of the decline in market rates.  There was a consensus that the economic decline in the major European economies and in the Czech Republic was likely to halt gradually, and the nature of the potential recovery was discussed. The prevailing view was that economic growth would be substantially slower in the coming years than before the outbreak of the financial and economic crisis, but that the Czech economic convergence process was not likely to stop. The rate of growth of potential output might also slow, so the lower economic growth would not necessarily have an anti-inflationary effect and consequently would not necessitate a monetary policy easing. However, the opinion was also expressed that as a result of the slow growth the existing surplus capacity would not be used and would thus tame inflation.  The current labour market situation was discussed. A slower-than-expected wage decline in industry and construction was mentioned as a risk of higher inflation in the future. It was said that the unexpectedly rapid growth observed in nominal unit wage costs might start to pass through to prices and might thus be a harbinger of higher inflation. However, the opinion was also repeatedly expressed that the labour market would not be a source of inflation pressures, owing to rising unemployment and the possibility that private and public sector wages would fall, as indicated by ongoing negotiations on wage cuts across the board.  The board members viewed possible continued growth in world oil prices as a risk of higher future inflation. This risk, however, was partially offset by a weaker dollar exchange rate. It was said that the excellent harvest and the fall in agricultural commodity prices was conversely a significant anti-inflationary factor.  The fiscal measures currently under debate and their implications for inflation and monetary policy were also discussed. The Board mostly agreed that if the measures were approved, they would constitute a desirable fiscal consolidation that would lead to lower than originally expected public budget deficits and would reduce the risk of potential future imbalances and public debt financing problems.  The Board stated that the fiscal measures would imply a restriction of demand, which would have an anti-inflationary effect. An increase in indirect taxes would also probably form part of the fiscal measures. The Board agreed, however, that monetary policy – as in the past – should not respond to the first-round effects of tax changes on inflation. As for the second-round effects of the changes to indirect taxes, it was said repeatedly that in an environment of depressed demand and surplus capacity they should be very small. However, the opinion was also expressed that considerable uncertainty surrounded the resulting direction of effect of the “fiscal package” on prices. This uncertainty made it impossible to class it as a clear downside risk to inflation.  The effect of the proposed fiscal measures on the financial market was also discussed. It was said that the reduced need to issue government bonds that would ensue from a lower than previously expected deficit would reduce the risk of the private sector being crowded out of the capital market and foster a reduction in long-term rates. The opinion was also repeatedly expressed that the proposed fiscal measures, which would be still the exception rather than the rule in the current international context , might foster an image of the Czech Republic as country with prudent fiscal policy and help to reduce its perceived risk. Monetary policy might then have to deal with increased appreciation pressures on the koruna, a likely side effect of this favourable development.  It was said in the discussion that monetary policy should take into account not only the attainment of the inflation target in consumer prices, but also long-term financial stability. It was argued that asset market imbalances might arise given the very low nominal rates. On this point, however, it was said that this long-term argument had less relevance for the present rate decision because, for example, property prices were currently falling, hence there was no current risk of bubbles forming.  Doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether an interest rate reduction would, in the present situation, have the desired effect on lending, the exchange rate and thus inflation at the monetary policy transmission horizon. It was argued, however, that a rate cut might cause an exchange rate correction, as it would come as a surprise. In connection with the potential continued build-up of anti-inflationary risks, and with regard to the already limited rate-lowering options of monetary policy, the Board also debated other monetary policy instruments that could be used to affect the exchange rate dynamics and establish an easier monetary policy.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1.25%. Five members voted in favour of this decision: Vice-Governor Hampl, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Two members voted for lowering rates by 0.25 percentage point: Governor Tůma and Vice-Governor Singer.