The meeting opened with a presentation of the fourth situation report assessing the newly available information and its impact on the fulfilment of the risks to the inflation forecast from the third situation report. The situation report assessed the overall balance of risks as being inflation neutral. Annual inflation in May had been just 0.1 percentage point higher than the forecast. This deviation had been due to a slight rise in adjusted inflation excluding fuels and to growth in fuel prices, with lower growth in food prices acting in the opposite direction. In response to the sharp economic downswing abroad, domestic GDP had fallen in 2009 Q1 by 0.9 percentage point more than forecasted. The situation report identified an inflationary risk in the GDP structure in the form of falling investment and higher-than-expected growth in household consumption. By contrast, the external outlook was anti-inflationary.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new information and the risks to the May forecast. The Board agreed that the risks to the inflation forecast were balanced. A deeper-than-forecasted fall in domestic and external economic activity and food prices represented a downside risk to inflation. The main upside risks were the structure of domestic economic activity, higher oil prices and higher adjusted inflation excluding fuels.  Great uncertainty was associated with the outlook for external economic activity, which remained unfavourable. The Board agreed that the potential easing of the negative trends and faster rebound in external growth being signalled by some business cycle indicators was highly uncertain. Concern was expressed that the external and domestic recession would continue. As an argument for leaving monetary policy rates unchanged it was said that the exchange rate of the koruna was significantly weaker year on year. This represented a sufficient stimulus for the domestic economy to overcome the current recession as compared to fixed exchange rate economies.  The Board went on to discuss the inflation risks associated with domestic economic activity going forward. The lower economic growth could be expected to have an anti-inflationary effect in the longer run owing to cost adjustment in the economy. The unexpectedly high growth in household consumption was a direct inflationary factor in the GDP structure. However, the evolution of household consumption was subject to uncertainty, as more detailed figures on the structure of households’ disposable income had still to be published.  In the debate about inflation and its components, it was said that inflation was developing in line with the forecast. The monetary policy priority was to hit the inflation target at the forecast horizon, and that was not currently in any danger. It was also said that no major inflation pressures were apparent in the near future. It was said in the discussion that the lower-than-forecasted growth in food prices posed no significant downside risk to inflation, because food prices were low and the transmission of agricultural producer prices to food prices was not immediate. It was said that monetary policy should not react to short-term fluctuations in food and oil prices. In the discussion of the components of inflation it was said repeatedly that the slight upswing in adjusted inflation excluding fuels might have been due to the weaker exchange rate at the start of this year. Higher core inflation was also being recorded in the euro area. This might pose an inflationary risk to the domestic economy owing to its close links with the euro area economy.  The Board discussed the transmission from monetary policy rates to market rates. It was said that market interest rates were not converging towards the CNB’s monetary policy rates. It was also said that the persisting high risk premium in the interbank market confirmed that the interest rate transmission channel was currently not very effective. A rate reduction could lead to depreciation of the exchange rate and a return to higher exchange rate volatility. It was also said in the discussion that the persisting high risk premium was tightening the monetary conditions and was therefore an argument for lowering rates. It was said repeatedly that even if short-term market interest rates were to fall in response to a CNB rate cut, the impact of the lower rates on long-term client rates was ambiguous. In terms of the effects on the economy, the level of long-term rates was more relevant than that of short-term rates.  In the discussion of the effectiveness of interest rate transmission, it was said that other central banks, for instance those in the USA and the euro area, had sharply lowered interest rates partly because of problems with financial stability in their economies. Short-term market rates were low as a result of monetary policy actions, but long-term rates had remained stable or had even risen somewhat. Financial stability was not an issue for the Czech economy, hence there was no need to bring interest rates down to zero. It was said repeatedly that low interest rates might pose a risk to financial stability in the future. It was said in the discussion that the money supply indicators were suggesting a potential risk to inflation in the longer run. The opinion was also expressed that given low interest rates, demand for loans might rise significantly once the recession subsides, causing inflation to go up.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1.50%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Chief Executive Director Řežábek voted for lowering rates by 0.25 percentage point.