The meeting opened with a presentation of the first situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. Headline inflation had fallen significantly in 2008 Q4 and in December was within the tolerance band of the inflation target. The domestic economy was continuing to decline from the peak of the business cycle. This decline was faster than assumed by the previous forecast owing to a sharp downswing in external demand. Domestic inflationary pressures were subsiding rapidly, but the anti-inflationary pressures arising from the past appreciation of the exchange rate were also fading as a result of a depreciating exchange rate. The initial inflation pressures were assessed as being anti-inflationary, but their intensity had decreased owing to the weakening exchange rate.  According to the new forecast, inflation would fall this year and would approach zero in mid-2009. Inflation would come down thanks to the unwinding of the inflationary price shocks that had occurred in late 2007 and early 2008 and to a decline in prices of food and energy-producing materials. At the end of this year inflation would start rising, and in the first half of next year it would approach the new 2% inflation target valid from the beginning of 2010. As a result of the unwinding of the first-round effects of changes to indirect taxes, monetary-policy relevant inflation would coincide with the headline inflation forecast as from the second half of this year. The forecast expected a sharp slowdown in economic growth owing to the global financial and economic crisis. Zero or slightly negative growth was expected on average this year, and growth of around 1% was foreseen in 2010 due to a gradual recovery of external demand. The nominal exchange rate would initially correct its depreciation observed at the beginning of this year and would then be broadly stable. Consistent with the forecast was a decline in interest rates.  After the presentation of the situation report, the Board discussed the new forecast and the risks associated with it. The board members agreed that the appropriate response to the current situation was to lower rates. It was also said that the current rate reduction phase might now be at an end. Compared to the previous forecast there had been an exceptionally large revision of the outlook for the external environment in the anti-inflationary direction. In particular, growth and inflation in the euro area, foreign interest rates and prices of energy-producing materials were all lower. There was agreement that the risk of a deeper and longer-lasting global economic crisis was acting towards lower growth of the domestic economy. The main upside factor for inflation identified in the discussion of the risks of the forecast was a weaker exchange rate.  The Board agreed that the Czech economy, which is highly open, would be hard hit by the slump in external demand. The prevailing view was that the impact of the reduction in external demand on the Czech economy would be strong because of the high concentration of production in certain branches of manufacturing. A slump in production capacity utilisation would imply a need to adapt to the new market conditions in the Czech economy and abroad. It was said that the latest industrial production and foreign trade statistics suggested the risk of a deeper-than-forecasted decline in economic activity. It was repeatedly said that the sharp decline in demand would be reflected above all in decreasing investment and exports. In the context of the decline in demand, it was also said that corporations would react to the lower demand by cutting their labour costs. It was said that subdued growth in nominal wages would be only partly offset by low inflation, and in this context it was said that household consumption growth might be lower than forecasted. The Board agreed that government consumption would be the only component of economic growth to record positive growth over the entire forecast horizon. In the discussion of the risks to economic growth, it was said that monetary policy would not avert the approaching recession, but could influence the real economy next year.  In connection with the risk of lower economic growth, it was repeatedly said that the lower demand might be associated with higher anti-inflationary pressures. The concern was expressed that inflation would converge towards the inflation target from below more slowly than the forecast suggested. It was also said, however, that inflation expectations at the one-year horizon were close to the inflation target. An increase in government spending, which might be undertaken in an effort to mitigate the current crisis, could be an upside risk to inflation in the longer run.  The Board then discussed lending activity. It was said that lending activity was falling mainly because of lower demand for loans. It was also said that operational financing of businesses by banks was also decreasing. In this connection, concern was expressed about the potential risk of a credit crunch. Against this, it was said that banks had sufficient funds but remained cautious in the current period of uncertainty.  The Board discussed the effectiveness of transmission from monetary policy rates to the real economy. It was said that the effectiveness of the interest rate channel of transmission remained low. In this context, it was said that only a sizeable rate reduction could have an effect on the real economy. The opinion was also expressed, though, that a change in monetary policy rates would pass through to market rates gradually and that the gap between market rates and monetary policy rates had narrowed recently.  In the context of the debate of monetary policy transmission mechanisms, it was said that a change in monetary policy rates might also act via the exchange rate channel and that the exchange rate affects the economy more quickly than interest rates. It was also said, however, that the effect of monetary policy on the exchange rate was limited in the current situation. The Board agreed that the exchange rate was encumbered with considerable uncertainty, but that a weaker exchange rate would reduce the scope for lowering monetary policy rates.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.50 percentage point to 1.75%, effective 6 February 2009. At the same time it decided to lower the discount rate and Lombard rate by the same amount, to 0.75% and 2.75% respectively. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Chief Executive Director Holman voted for lowering the rates by 0.25 percentage point and Chief Executive Director Řežábek for lowering the rates by 0.75 percentage point.