The meeting opened with a presentation of the eighth situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the November macroeconomic forecast. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being moderately inflationary. The main upside risks to inflation were the higher inflation observed in November and the near-term outlook for inflation, as well as a slightly weaker exchange rate. Roughly half of the deviation of actual inflation from the forecast had been due to higher fuel prices, linked with an increased outlook for oil prices, while the other half had been due to higher adjusted inflation excluding fuels. The main downside factor, by contrast, was a change in the external outlook, in particular an assumption of lower foreign market interest rates.  After the presentation of the eighth situation report, the Board discussed the new information and the risks to the fulfilment of the November forecast. Most of the board members agreed that the new information had not convinced them of the need to change their opinion regarding the interest rate settings, despite the persisting high level of risk. Those board members who were in favour of lowering interest rates emphasised the assumption of the forecast in the seventh situation report about the need for lower market rates. The non-reduction of interest rates at the last monetary policy meeting had led to a situation where market interest rates were currently higher than forecasted and had been for some time. The advocates of unchanged interest rates conversely pointed out that, in addition to the arguments for leaving rates unchanged that had been made during the discussion of the forecast in the seventh situation report, the economy was now seeing some upside risks to inflation. It was also mentioned that despite the higher differential between market and reference rates in the Czech Republic, market rates were now at a historical low, and that when rates are so low the economy cannot function in the long term without developing major imbalances. Against this, however, it was said that no risks of imbalances or impacts on financial stability were apparent so far from the available information and analyses.  In the context of the interest rate settings, the Board discussed the size of the market interest rate differential between the Czech Republic and the euro area. The Board agreed that the effective market interest rate differential was larger in reality than suggested by the difference between repo rates. However, the individual board members differed in their interpretation of the monetary policy implications of this differential. On the one hand, it was argued that a reduction of interest rates was desirable since it would allow the interest rate differential to decrease. On the other hand, it was mentioned that the high market interest rate differential reflected certain non-standard monetary policy measures of the ECB, and that given the announced gradual abandonment of these measures it would tend to disappear of its own accord. In addition, it was said that the higher differential reflected the current higher risk premium in the Czech Republic. Against this, some of the board members expressed doubts that the ECB would be willing to abandon these non-standard measures in the foreseeable future.  The Board also spent quite some time discussing the labour market, where, among other things, there had been surprisingly rapid growth in the average wage and a faster decline in employment in the national economy. It was mentioned that part of the deviation of faster-than-forecasted average wage growth was probably due to a change in the employment structure, with low-wage and high-sickness-rate employees being laid off first. Also mentioned was the discrepancy between average wage growth according to the Czech Statistical Office and growth in the nominal hourly wage according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was substantially lower. Likewise, there was a contradiction between the growth in the average wage and the decline in the total volume of wages in the national economy, even taking into account the year-on-year fall in total employment. The prevailing view was thus that the labour market data were not indicating any major upside risks to inflation overall.  The Board then discussed GDP, which had recorded a lower-than-forecasted year-on-year decline. This deviation had been due mainly to higher-than-expected growth in household consumption and also to higher growth in government consumption. It was said that the household consumption growth was not in line with the aforementioned decline in the volume of wages. Real household consumption growth might have been partly affected by the unexpected fall in the consumption deflator, which was inconsistent with the rising consumer price index and which might be revised retroactively. With regard to the unexpectedly high growth in government consumption, some of the board members mentioned their concerns about easy fiscal policy, which, given the failure to push through the fiscal austerity package, might lead to a further escalation of inflationary pressures. It was also mentioned that the high public finance deficits might keep the risk premium at a higher level. Concern was also expressed about the decline in loans provided to non-financial corporations and about its impacts on investment activity.  In arguing to leave interest rates unchanged, some of the board members mentioned their uncertainty regarding the equilibrium paths specified in the model. In this context, the Board mainly discussed the potential future one-off decline in production capacity, or potential output, which in a situation of inertial aggregate demand would lead to inflationary pressures. Against this, however, it was said that the current evidence tended to suggest persistence of the excess production capacity caused by the fall in demand, which was leading more towards anti-inflationary pressures. It was mentioned that the temporarily lower growth in potential output was already partially reflected in the current forecast and that considerations about a fall in potential output only had an effect beyond the monetary policy horizon. Against this, it was said that the one-off decline in potential output, were it actually to occur, was in fact relevant in the short and medium term.  For some of the board members, the main argument for leaving interest rates unchanged was the forecast assumption of rising interest rates over the next two to three quarters and their unwillingness to make such aggressive monetary policy changes in the opposite direction. In this context, some of the board members repeated their concerns about the limited effectiveness of monetary policy in a situation of very low interest rates. Against this, however, it was said that monetary policy-relevant inflation was approaching the target from below, which did not testify to a significantly aggressive monetary policy response. The proposed interest rate cut was, moreover, lower than assumed by the forecast, and besides that the reduction of the market rate outlook in the euro area would allow domestic rates to be raised much more slowly in 2010 than assumed by the current forecast. The prevailing view was that even if the effectiveness of the interest rate channel of monetary policy transmission was lower, this channel would nonetheless remain operational and should be used as and when necessary. The belief was also expressed that transparent monetary policy should be anticyclical and that the point of monetary policy was to react to economic shocks and not to smooth interest rates. If monetary policy were to miss the right moment for lowering rates, it would mean slower output growth and a larger undershooting of the inflation target.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to lower the CNB two-week repo rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.00%, effective 17 December 2009. At the same time it decided to lower the Lombard rate by the same amount, to 2.00%. The discount rate was left unchanged at 0.25%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Tomšík and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Three members voted for leaving interest rates unchanged: Vice-Governor Hampl, Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Řežábek.