The meeting opened with a presentation of the seventh situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. The Czech economy had recorded a marked upturn in annual growth in 2010 Q2, and a further, albeit more modest, pick-up in annual GDP growth was expected in Q3. A recovery had also started to appear on the labour market, where the annual decline in employment had moderated and the unemployment rate had decreased in Q2 and Q3. The initial inflation pressures stemming from the domestic economy were assessed as being slight. The import cost pressures in the consumer goods sector were weakly anti-inflationary as a result of the recent appreciation of the exchange rate, and only commodity prices were acting in the inflationary direction.  According to the November forecast, headline domestic inflation would, like at present, be close to the inflation target over the entire forecast horizon. Monetary-policy relevant inflation, i.e. inflation adjusted for the first-round effects of changes to indirect taxes, would keep rising over the forecast horizon and would converge to the inflation target in 2011 H1. Economic growth would be 2.3% this year, according to the new forecast. In 2011, GDP growth would slow to 1.2%, owing to fiscal consolidation, slowing external demand growth and the unwinding of the effect of replenishment of inventories. A renewed, more robust recovery would occur only in 2012, when GDP growth was expected to rise to 2.5%. The nominal exchange rate was appreciating gradually over the forecast horizon. Consistent with the forecast was stability of market interest rates close to their current levels initially, followed by a gradual rise in rates at the longer end of the forecast. Compared to the previous forecast, the forecast for headline inflation was slightly lower for 2010 and the interest rate path was lower at the longer end of the forecast. The risks of the forecast were viewed as balanced.  The prevailing view in the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report was that the current inflation pressures were negligible, inflation expectations were well anchored and the risks of the inflation forecast were balanced. The majority of the board members agreed that in this situation the appropriate monetary policy reaction was to leave monetary policy rates at their existing level. Potentially higher growth in world commodity prices and domestic agricultural producer prices was identified as a weak upside risk to inflation. Conversely, greater-than-expected anti-inflationary effects of fiscal consolidation around the world were identified as a weak downside risk.  The Board went on to discuss the risks that need to be considered in relation to the stable outlook. It was said repeatedly that uncertainty had increased sharply in several areas in recent weeks. The main source of increased uncertainty was the external situation, specifically the macroeconomic decisions of central banks and governments, the hard-to-quantify effects of changes in financial sector regulation, the absence of pro-growth impulses and the effects of necessary fiscal consolidation.  The next part of the discussion was focused on the implications of the significantly increased uncertainty for monetary policy decision-making. The prevailing view was that given the absence of inflation pressures, the optimal monetary policy reaction in an environment of such high uncertainty was to leave interest rates at their existing level, since stable interest rates would remain a factor not forming an additional source of uncertainty for market participants. The opinion was also expressed in the discussion that the general macroeconomic uncertainty relating to the external environment and to exogenous factors and their effects on the Czech economy was such that at the present time it was impossible to rule out virtually any domestic monetary policy actions over the forecast horizon as regards direction and quantity.  The Board discussed the economic growth outlook in depth. There was agreement that by comparison with the September forecast there was greater uncertainty regarding the evolution of domestic GDP, at least in the sense of a wider fan around the centre of the forecast. Doubts were repeatedly expressed about whether the GDP growth forecast of 1.2% for 2011 was not too pessimistic. In support of this opinion it was said that fiscal consolidation would positively affect the expectations of investors and consumers, which would gradually feed through to an increase in economic activity. It was also said that household consumption might develop better than forecasted and that retail sales at the end of this year would be an important indicator of its future trend and of a potential renewal of inflation pressures. It was also said that the rising share of the transaction component of the money supply could be regarded as a possible signal of private sector expectations of a more pronounced recovery. The opinion was also expressed that in light of the positive economic developments in the Czech economy’s trading partner nations, such as Germany, Slovakia and Poland, much stronger external demand and a continued robust recovery in domestic economic activity could be expected in 2011. This would be reflected in increased domestic demand, as a result of which stronger inflation pressures than predicted by the new forecast would start to emerge.  The Board also assessed monetary developments abroad and their potential effects on the domestic economy. It was said repeatedly that the new round of quantitative easing could delay interest rate hikes in the euro area. This was creating a risk of renewed pressures for excessive appreciation of the koruna, which might occur in reaction to the emergence of expectations of faster growth in domestic monetary policy rates relative to the external economy. Investor optimism relating to continuing fiscal consolidation and an improving balance of trade in goods and services linked with a halt in imports relating to investment in photovoltaic power generation this year were identified as other potential sources of renewed appreciation pressure. In a discussion of developments in the domestic and external financial sectors it was said that from the domestic perspective the current environment presented no risk to future financial stability, as evidenced by weak growth in loans and in the money supply.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Five members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Tomšík, Chief Executive Director Holman and Chief Executive Director Řežábek. Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point.