The meeting opened with a presentation of the second situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the February macroeconomic forecast. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being moderately anti-inflationary. The main downside risk to inflation was a change in the external outlook, in particular an assumed later and slower rise in market interest rates in the euro area. As for the domestic economy, the quarter-on-quarter upswing in GDP growth assumed in the forecast had materialised in 2009 Q4. In year-on-year terms, GDP had continued falling, doing so faster than the forecast had assumed. Turning to the structure of GDP, quite a sizeable downward revision had been made to household consumption, although this had been partly offset by upward revisions to other components of demand. Consumer price inflation in February had been 0.3 percentage points lower than forecasted. The deviation of inflation from the forecast had been driven mainly by a deeper decline in adjusted inflation excluding fuels.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that in addition to high uncertainty regarding future trends, monetary policy decision-making was encumbered with uncertainty concerning the interpretation of the statistics on past trends. The historical statistical indicators may have been deflected by the extreme growth shocks and might be less reliable than under normal circumstances. In this context, the revision of the consumer basket made at the start of 2010 was discussed. This had also been reflected in (lower-than-forecasted) inflation in February. It was mentioned that the weights of food and tradable commodities in the consumer basket had increased at the expense of nontradables and services, and that this was counter-intuitive for a converging economy. It was argued that the change in weights might have been linked with the one-off supply shocks to world food prices in 2008 and that the strong exchange rate and the contraction in tourism that year might have also played a role.  Another major uncertainty also discussed by the Board was the evolution of wages and related nominal unit wage costs. In this regard, there was a discrepancy in growth in wage-cost pressures between the different series (National Accounts versus the Labour Force Survey). The arguments made in the discussions of the last two situation reports were repeated, namely that the high wage growth in late 2009 might have been linked with a lower sickness rate and with mostly low-wage employees having been laid off during the crisis. Tax optimisation was forwarded as an explanation of the high wage growth: payment of some bonuses for 2009 may have been brought forward to 2009 in response to the raising of social and health insurance ceilings. Overall, the Board agreed that wage growth seemed to be a two-sided risk.  In connection with the revision of the GDP structure, most of the board members expressed their belief that the revision was in line with their expectations and that the February forecast’s assumption of a W-shaped economic recovery was thus unchanged. The Board agreed that the recovery in the Czech Republic would be driven primarily by exports. In this context, the Board discussed the external economy, and in particular the deferral of the rate-raising cycle in the euro area and its potential implications for the exchange rate of the Czech koruna. Some of the board members expressed their concern about whether an excessive appreciation of the koruna might endanger the aforementioned economic recovery scenario through lower export growth than assumed in the forecast. By contrast, some of the board members expressed the concern that if no will to stabilise the fiscal situation was shown at the transmission horizon, this might foster depreciation of the koruna or limit its appreciation. In the fiscal context, mention was made of Ricardian equivalence concerning the upward effect of fiscal deficits on the savings rate, which would lead in the anti-inflationary direction.  In relation to the outlook for slower growth in foreign short-term rates, the opinion was expressed that foreign medium-term and long-term rates might be of greater significance for the Czech economy going forward. Here, differentiation might occur across the euro area, depending, among other things, on the member states’ fiscal situations. In the discussion of external developments, some of the board members mentioned the outlook for prices of oil and other commodities, which might be indicating that a recovery is already starting in some parts of the world. It was said that this was the only major upside risk to inflation.  The Board also spent quite some time discussing the effectiveness of monetary policy during the crisis. In this context, the forecast assumption regarding the rate of decline of the still high risk premium between monetary policy rates and 3M PRIBOR interbank rates was repeatedly discussed. Some of the board members expressed their doubts about this assumption. Also mentioned was the issue of whether the potential monetary policy rate movement might be weakened by an opposite movement of this premium. In addition, the strength and speed of the transmission of short-term market rates to client rates on loans to the private sector, which might also be weakened, was discussed. The high uncertainty associated with the estimates of this transmission was also mentioned. In the context of the possible weakening of the transmission of monetary policy rates and related risks, some of the board members expressed a preference for monetary policy stability.  The Board also discussed how the prevailing downside risks to inflation were affecting the domestic interest rate outlook. Most of the board members agreed that the assumptions of the February forecast were essentially materialising and that despite the existence of anti-inflationary risks interest rates were close to bottoming out. Their assumed future growth would be later and slower compared to the current forecast. However, some of the board members expressed the view that the aforementioned anti-inflationary risks were so significant that a downward movement of interest rates could be imagined if they were to materialise.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1%. Four members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Chief Executive Director Řežábek and Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová. Two members voted for lowering rates by 0.25 percentage point: Vice-Governor Singer and Chief Executive Director Tomšík.