The meeting opened with a presentation of the eighth situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the inflation forecast contained in the seventh situation report. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being balanced. Inflation in November had been just 0.1 percentage point lower than forecasted; food prices had recorded less growth and adjusted inflation excluding fuels and regulated price inflation had also been slightly lower. By contrast, annual growth in fuel prices had been higher than forecasted. New national accounts data showed a continuing acceleration in annual GDP growth, which had reached 2.8% in Q3 and was 0.1 percentage point higher than forecasted. Gross capital formation, driven by investment in inventories and photovoltaic power stations, had made a larger-than-forecasted contribution to GDP growth, whereas the contribution of net exports had been negative. Rising world commodity prices and the currently weaker exchange rate were inflationary risks of the forecast. Lower-than-expected wage growth was acting in the anti-inflationary direction.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing opinion was that the risks of the inflation forecast were balanced. The majority of the board members agreed that the appropriate monetary policy response was to leave rates at the current level.  In connection with the stable outlook, it was said repeatedly that there were uncertainties in several areas. The external situation was a source of increased uncertainty, especially in the context of the continuing debt crisis in Europe and the impacts of necessary fiscal consolidation. In the discussion, some of the board members stated that the uncertainties were so great that all possible monetary policy responses remained open at the forecast horizon.  In the discussion of the risks of the inflation forecast, some of the board members drew attention to growing partial upside risks to inflation emerging in individual price areas. It was said that cost-push inflation pressures might arise despite low GDP growth. Growth in world commodity prices driven by demand in new markets, especially in Asia, was repeatedly identified as an upside risk to inflation. However, the opinion was also expressed that higher commodity prices would be suppressed by the stronger exchange rate expected in the forecast. It was said in the discussion that both current inflation and forecasted inflation were roughly at the inflation target of 2% and that current monetary-policy relevant inflation was low. It was said that evolution of the money supply and credit remained moderate and was not signalling inflation pressures. The low wage growth in Q3 was a downside risk to inflation.  The Board discussed in depth the economic growth outlook and its implications for the inflation forecast. The opinion was repeatedly expressed that the GDP growth forecast of 1.2% for 2011 was too pessimistic. In this regard, it was said that even though the uncertainty associated with expected GDP growth was high, there was spare capacity in the economy and the output gap was significantly negative. The inflation pressures were therefore very subdued. However, it was also said in the discussion that the output gap estimates were also affected by data from the period preceding the global crisis and that these data might have reflected an overheating of the domestic economy rather than its equilibrium state. The economy might thus currently be closer to its equilibrium state and might even be above it at the forecast horizon. This, coupled with rising world commodity prices and a weaker exchange rate, might pose an upside risk to inflation. It was also said that the year-end retail sales figures would be a significant indicator of the future household consumption trend and of a potential renewal of inflation pressures.  An important condition for future economic growth is the outlook for economic activity abroad. It was said that the growth of the German economy might be higher than expected because German exports were going mainly to new markets, especially in Asia. This would represent an inflationary risk of the inflation forecast. The opinion was repeatedly expressed that the uncertainty associated with public finance in the euro area connected with the continuing debt crisis might represent a downside risk to inflation via lower external growth. It was also said that the stable outlook for the domestic economy was reflected in lower government debt financing costs compared to other countries and that this was an argument for stable rates.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Six members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Tomšík, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Janáček and Chief Executive Director Řežábek. Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point.