The meeting opened with a presentation of the first situation report containing the new macroeconomic forecast. Headline inflation had risen in 2009 Q4, but had remained below the lower boundary of the tolerance band around the inflation target. The year-on-year contraction in real GDP had moderated in 2009 Q3, while in quarter-on-quarter terms economic activity had risen for the second consecutive quarter. The decline in employment had deepened further and unemployment had increased. However, average nominal wage growth had accelerated. Import prices were anti-inflationary. According to the forecast, no domestic inflation pressures were currently visible.  The February forecast predicted that inflation would gradually rise during 2010. Owing to tax changes, it would temporarily increase slightly above the inflation target of 2% in the second half of the year. Monetary-policy relevant inflation would approach the target from below. From 2010 Q1, economic activity would return to moderate year-on-year growth. However, stronger growth would be prevented by weakening household and government consumption and uneven growth in external demand. Economic growth was expected to reach 1.4% in 2010 and to speed up slightly to 2.1% in 2011. According to the forecast, the nominal exchange rate would appreciate gradually. Consistent with the forecast was stability of short-term interest rates close to current levels in the first half of this year and a gradual rise in rates thereafter.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the Board agreed that it was appropriate to leave interest rates unchanged. The prevailing view was that the overall balance of risks to the forecast was balanced. An opinion was also expressed emphasising the upside risks to inflation connected with wage growth, although these risks were associated with greater uncertainty for the time being. On the other hand, downside risks to inflation were also mentioned, namely the fall in expected market rates in the euro area and the persisting low economic activity, in respect of which a more robust recovery could be expected only in 2011. Some of the board members stated that the decision-making on monetary policy interest rates was going on in an environment of less uncertainty than in past months.  It was said repeatedly that the domestic economy was slowly rebounding and emerging from recession and that an asymmetrical W-shaped recovery in external demand could be expected. The domestic inflation pressures were currently not very strong, but a gradual build-up of inflation pressures could be expected as the recession faded.  The Board discussed the implications of producers’ currently squeezed profit margins for future inflation. It was said that in the longer run margins would probably rise to the usual level and exert pressure on inflation. On the other hand, opinions were expressed that the reactivation of current excess production capacity would not necessarily have inflationary effects. For the same reason, a rapid recovery in investment could not be expected. The discussion also covered the uncertainty surrounding the rate of growth of potential output. The opinion was expressed that the economic crisis had not affected the long-run rate of growth of potential output. It was also said, however, that the rate of growth of potential output assumed by the current forecast was on the optimistic side, even though it had been temporarily reduced relative to the long-run rate on the basis of expert estimates.  The Board then discussed the labour market. It was said that year-on-year average nominal wage growth in the business sector was surprisingly high given the low economic activity. However, it was said that the observed growth to some extent reflected changes in the employment structure due to lay-offs of low-wage and high-sickness-rate employees and that, moreover, the wage growth figures were at variance with the national accounts statistics. It was said that inflation pressures caused by wage growth could be expected not to emerge until 2011.  It was said several times that the fiscal policy outlook would be a major factor as regards the future path of the economy. In this context, it was said repeatedly that the fiscal outlook was associated with considerable uncertainty. It was said that the risk of an increasing general government deficit could be regarded as significant.  The Board discussed the outlook for net exports in relation to the recovery in external economic activity. In this context, mention was made of the considerable uncertainty regarding the goods and services balance data and the corresponding financial flows.  The spread between interbank market interest rates and the monetary policy rate was discussed. The opinion was expressed that the faster-than-forecasted decline in the spread between short-term interest rates and the monetary policy rate might represent an upside risk to inflation going forward. However, opinions were conversely also expressed emphasising the downside risk of the opposite scenario.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided unanimously to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 1%. Governor Tůma, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Singer, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Řežábek and Chief Executive Director Tomšík voted in favour of this decision.