The meeting opened with a presentation of the sixth situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the inflation forecast contained in the fifth situation report. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast overall as being balanced. Inflation in August had been just 0.1 percentage point lower than forecasted; food prices had recorded less growth and adjusted inflation excluding fuels and regulated price inflation had also been lower. Lower inflation had been fostered by a stronger exchange rate and the impacts of the proposed fiscal consolidation. The inflationary factors had included published data on higher household consumption and slightly faster wage growth, a higher outlook for food price inflation and a higher outlook for regulated price inflation due to an expected increase in electricity prices.  In the discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing opinion was that the risks of the inflation forecast were balanced and that the appropriate response was to leave rates at the current level. However, it was also said that upside risks to inflation were emerging as a result of the continuing domestic and external economic recovery. It was said repeatedly that the current level of monetary policy rates was low and could present a risk in the longer term from the financial stability perspective. However, the prevailing opinion was that the deciding factors for current rate settings were the macroeconomic situation at home and internationally and the outlook for that situation. In this regard it was said that the risks of the forecast were moderate.  In the discussion of the risks of the inflation forecast, some of the board members drew attention to certain upside risks to inflation. Some agricultural commodity prices and import prices in some sectors were rising. It was said that the expected electricity price increase could spill over to other price categories. The opinion was repeatedly expressed that the upside risks to inflation were predominantly on the cost side, but some were also emerging on the demand side. It was said in the discussion that the rising prices of commodities and other cost items did not represent a significant inflation forecast risk and that annual growth in industrial producer prices had been lower in August than in the preceding month. It was said repeatedly that inflation expectations were well anchored and that there was no danger to the fulfilment of the inflation target.  Some of the board members expressed the opinion that the unexpectedly higher growth in household consumption could represent an upside risk to inflation. However, it was said repeatedly that although household consumption was being supported by higher-than-forecasted wage growth and lower-than-forecasted unemployment, this higher consumption growth was not reflected in current inflation. The new household consumption data were also inconsistent with the retail sales data. The opinion was repeatedly expressed that the unexpectedly higher growth in household consumption and wages had no bearing on the current monetary policy rate settings.  The Board discussed in depth the outlook for external growth, which is an important condition for domestic economic growth. It was said repeatedly that domestic exports were largely dependent on German growth and exports. It was said that the growth outlook for the Czech Republic’s major trading partners was positive and that the German economy was experiencing renewed robust growth, which had clearly not been affected by the discontinuation of the car-scrapping incentive programme. However, it was said several times in the discussion that the external economic growth outlook was encumbered with uncertainty. External growth was returning, but there was a risk of renewed slowdown. Certain indicators were signalling a downswing in external growth, and the growth outlook for the U.S. economy was also uncertain. Another factor acting against a robust external growth outlook was the uncertain fiscal outlook in some euro area countries. However, it was also said that the external risks were balanced in relation to the inflation forecast, because any high growth abroad would mean growth in Czech exports and hence appreciation of the exchange rate, which would have an anti-inflationary effect.  In the discussion of the domestic economic growth outlook it was said that renewed growth could give rise to inflation pressures given the low interest rates. The opinion was expressed that expected growth next year would be more sustained, but not robust enough to present an upside risk to inflation given the current low capacity utilisation. It was said that domestic economic growth was rising in spite of the strengthening exchange rate and that domestic inflation pressures would be suppressed by a stronger exchange rate. The view was expressed that the strengthening exchange rate probably posed a smaller risk to economic growth than in the previous period. Besides a potential slowdown in external growth, the expected electricity price increase would have a negative effect next year, and the employment outlook was also uncertain. It was said repeatedly that economic growth would be negatively, albeit temporarily, affected by the planned fiscal consolidation via household consumption. It was said again that the new regulatory framework for the European financial sector and higher capital requirements could also have a negative growth impact.  It was said that economic growth was recovering despite low credit growth. However, low credit growth was not necessarily inconsistent with gradual economic recovery, as the recent crisis might have changed the behaviour and attitude to risk of financial market participants. The opinion was expressed that the ratio of demand deposits was increasing, thanks among other things to the lowering of monetary policy rates in May, and that this could pose something of a risk. It was said that a risk was also presented by the currently negative ex-ante real deposit rates, although real rates on new loans were positive and higher than before the global financial and economic crisis erupted. Higher real interest rates on new loans were consistent with the gradual easing of the crisis. It was also said in the discussion that the gap between short-term market rates and monetary policy rates was stable and unchanging. However, it was also said that this gap might narrow if the fiscal consolidation was successful.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Six members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Tomšík, Chief Executive Director Holman, Chief Executive Director Janáček and Chief Executive Director Řežábek. Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point.