The meeting opened with a presentation of the second situation report assessing the new information and its effect on the fulfilment of the risks of the inflation forecast contained in the first situation report. The new situation report assessed the risks in relation to the forecast for headline inflation as being on the upside overall and those in relation to the forecast for monetary-policy relevant inflation as being broadly balanced overall. With regard to the future path of interest rates, the risks were heading upwards. The main external upside risks to inflation were the current high global commodity prices and the outlook for external interest rates. The main upside risk from the domestic economy was the planned increase in the VAT rate in 2012. The main downside risks to inflation were weak inflationary pressures from the domestic economy and a slightly stronger koruna-euro exchange rate. In February, consumer price inflation had been 0.3 percentage point lower than forecasted, mainly because of lower growth in food prices.  In the Bank Board’s discussion that followed the presentation of the situation report, the prevailing opinion was that the risks were balanced and that the appropriate response was to leave rates at the current level. However, the opinion was also expressed that the current external situation represented a strong upside risk to inflation and that a rate increase was desirable. It was said several times that the current situation was best captured by the baseline scenario in the first situation report combined with the alternative scenarios of higher commodity prices and escalation of the euro area debt crisis.  The Board then discussed the domestic economic situation in more detail. The prevailing opinion among the board members was that the current situation – characterised by lower-than-forecasted GDP, inflation and wages and higher-than-forecasted unemployment – was not signalling the existence of any demand-pull inflation pressures from the domestic economy. The Board discussed the monetary policy impacts of the potential VAT changes in 2012 in quite some depth. The Board agreed that the VAT changes posed an upside risk to headline inflation and would have negative impacts on household consumption. However, the prevailing opinion was that inflation expectations were well anchored and that the rise in headline inflation due to the VAT changes would be only temporary, as evidenced by historical experience.  It was said several times that rising fuel prices, VAT changes and rent deregulation would affect household consumption generally in all sectors, which could further reduce the demand pressures. It was also said that the labour market situation did not represent a risk as regards growth in demand pressures either. It was said that wage bargaining was not indicating faster wage growth and that any labour market recovery would mostly concern low-income workers, which did not represent a wage growth risk either. In a discussion of food prices, it was noted that food prices would probably come down and that the recent rise in food prices might act as a cushion against full pass-through of the VAT changes to prices.  The Board then discussed the external situation. The commodity price outlook was identified as being important. It was said that commodity prices currently did not represent a major upside risk to inflation and forward contracts suggested that they would not rise any further. Some of the board members expressed uncertainty about how long the elevated commodity prices would last. The opinion was also expressed that the growth in commodity prices was now already spilling over to production prices and that it was only a matter of time before consumer prices would start to rise. However, it was repeatedly said that owing to weak domestic demand, the observed cost pressures represented by the commodity price growth were not currently an inflation risk. It was noted that oil prices were playing a role in the large difference between adjusted and headline inflation in both the domestic and external economy.  Other issues discussed relating to the external outlook included Germany’s economic growth prospects and the potential fiscal problems in some other euro area countries. The majority of the board members regarded the economic situation in Germany as stable and consistent with the forecast. The expected slowdown in German economic growth was a result of fiscal restriction, which had started earlier than in other countries. A faster recovery in Germany would probably have to be caused by a sharp upturn in external demand. The opinion was also expressed that the German economy was nearing full capacity utilisation and was in danger of overheating. It was repeatedly said that the fiscal problems in some euro area countries would probably continue and possibly escalate. On this topic, it was said that any fiscal transfers in the euro area would not necessarily mean growth in demand pressures in the euro area.  The board members then turned their attention to the monetary aggregate M2. Some of the board members pointed to the possibility of analysing the present economic situation from the point of view of inflation as a monetary phenomenon. Monetary aggregate growth in the Czech Republic and in the euro area was currently subdued and not indicating any danger of inflation. It was said that, when seen through the lens of inflation as a monetary phenomenon, neither the VAT changes nor the commodity price growth would have any major impacts other than on household consumption.  At the close of the meeting the Board decided by a majority vote to leave the two-week repo rate unchanged at 0.75%. Five members voted in favour of this decision: Governor Singer, Vice-Governor Hampl, Vice-Governor Tomšík, Chief Executive Director Lízal and Chief Executive Director Řežábek. Chief Executive Director Zamrazilová voted for increasing rates by 0.25 percentage point.